---
title: "Twin CAT 3 Licensing 2025-09-16"
product: "Licensing"
category: "Fundamentals"
tags: ["CAT", "LICENSING", "TWIN"]
language: "EN"
document_type: "Manual"
version: "1.20.7"
source_pdf: "https://download.beckhoff.com/download/Document/automation/twincat3/Licensing_EN.pdf"
release_date: "2025-09-16"
---
Manual | EN Twin CAT 3 Licensing 2025-09-16 | Version: 1.20.7

## Page 3

Table of contents Table of contents 1 Foreword.................................................................................................................................................... 5 1.1 Notes on the documentation............................................................................................................. 5 1.2 For your safety.................................................................................................................................. 5 1.3 Notes on information security............................................................................................................ 7 2 Quick start................................................................................................................................................. 8 3 Introduction............................................................................................................................................. 11 3.1 Twin CAT 3 license agreement........................................................................................................ 11 3.2 License types.................................................................................................................................. 11 3.3 Core components of Twin CAT 3 licensing...................................................................................... 12 3.3.1 Twin CAT 3 License ID..................................................................................................... 12 3.3.2 Twin CAT 3 platform level (performance level)................................................................. 12 3.3.3 Twin CAT 3 system ID...................................................................................................... 14 3.3.4 Twin CAT 3 license dongle............................................................................................... 16 3.3.5 License Request File and License Response File........................................................... 17 3.4 Twin CAT 3 License TANs................................................................................................................ 19 3.5 Determining required licenses......................................................................................................... 20 3.6 Checking license dependencies...................................................................................................... 22 3.7 Determining the license status........................................................................................................ 23 3.7.1 License overview in Twin CAT 3 Engineering (XAE)........................................................ 23 3.7.2 License overview in the Twin CAT 3 Runtime (XAR)........................................................ 24 3.8 Requesting previously issued licenses again from the license server............................................ 26 4 Working with Twin CAT 3 license dongles............................................................................................ 27 4.1 Commissioning and configuring license dongles............................................................................ 28 4.2 Determining the current status of a license dongle......................................................................... 35 4.3 Memory function of the license dongles.......................................................................................... 36 4.3.1 Copying license files from the dongle to the IPC............................................................. 38 4.3.2 Saving license files manually on the dongle.................................................................... 39 4.3.3 PLC function blocks relating to the storage function of the license dongles.................... 40 4.4 Removing a license dongle during operation.................................................................................. 42 4.5 License Device overview window.................................................................................................... 42 5 Ordering of Twin CAT 3 standard licenses............................................................................................ 45 5.1 Preactivation of standard licenses by Beckhoff............................................................................... 45 5.2 Downgrade of Twin CAT 3 standard licenses.................................................................................. 45 5.3 Twin CAT 3 license certificate.......................................................................................................... 46 5.4 Ordering standard licenses............................................................................................................. 47 6 Activating standard licenses manually................................................................................................. 49 6.1 Licensing process........................................................................................................................... 49 6.2 Creating License Request Files...................................................................................................... 49 6.3 Creating License Request Files without Twin CAT Engineering (XAE)........................................... 60 6.4 Importing and activating a License Response File.......................................................................... 61 6.5 Troubleshooting.............................................................................................................................. 62 6.5.1 License Request file......................................................................................................... 63 6.5.2 License Response File..................................................................................................... 64 Twin CAT 3 Version: 1.20.7 3

## Page 4

Table of contents 6.5.3 Twin CAT 3 license dongle............................................................................................... 65 6.5.4 Non-Beckhoff IPCs........................................................................................................... 68 7 Re-retrieving the License Response File and license certificate from the license server............... 69 8 Changing the licensing basis (device change).................................................................................... 70 9 Errorcodes of the activation server....................................................................................................... 71 10 Special Twin CAT 3 license types.......................................................................................................... 72 10.1 Twin CAT 3 test licenses.................................................................................................................. 72 10.1.1 Creating trial licenses manually....................................................................................... 72 10.2 Twin CAT 3 volume licenses............................................................................................................ 75 10.2.1 Core components............................................................................................................. 75 10.2.2 Ordering volume licenses................................................................................................. 79 10.2.3 Activating volume licenses............................................................................................... 80 10.2.4 Twin CAT 3 volume license dongles................................................................................. 80 11 Support and Service............................................................................................................................... 82 4 Version: 1.20.7 Twin CAT 3

## Page 5

Foreword 1 Foreword 1.1 Notes on the documentation This description is intended exclusively for trained specialists in control and automation technology who are familiar with the applicable national standards. The documentation and the following notes and explanations must be complied with when installing and commissioning the components. The trained specialists must always use the current valid documentation. The trained specialists must ensure that the application and use of the products described is in line with all safety requirements, including all relevant laws, regulations, guidelines, and standards. Disclaimer The documentation has been compiled with care. The products described are, however, constantly under development. We reserve the right to revise and change the documentation at any time and without notice. Claims to modify products that have already been supplied may not be made on the basis of the data, diagrams, and descriptions in this documentation. Trademarks Beckhoff®, ATRO® , Ether CAT®, Ether CAT G®, Ether CAT G10®, Ether CAT P®, MX-System®, Safety over Ether CAT®, TC/BSD®, Twin CAT®, Twin CAT/BSD®, Twin SAFE®, XFC®, XPlanar®, and XTS® are registered and licensed trademarks of Beckhoff Automation Gmb H. If third parties make use of the designations or trademarks contained in this publication for their own purposes, this could infringe upon the rights of the owners of the said designations. Ether CAT® is a registered trademark and patented technology, licensed by Beckhoff Automation Gmb H, Germany. Copyright © Beckhoff Automation Gmb H & Co. KG, Germany. The distribution and reproduction of this document, as well as the use and communication of its contents without express authorization, are prohibited. Offenders will be held liable for the payment of damages. All rights reserved in the event that a patent, utility model, or design are registered. Third-party trademarks Trademarks of third parties may be used in this documentation. You can find the trademark notices here: https://www.beckhoff.com/trademarks. 1.2 For your safety Safety regulations Read the following explanations for your safety. Always observe and follow product-specific safety instructions, which you may find at the appropriate places in this document. Exclusion of liability All the components are supplied in particular hardware and software configurations which are appropriate for the application. Modifications to hardware or software configurations other than those described in the documentation are not permitted, and nullify the liability of Beckhoff Automation Gmb H & Co. KG. Twin CAT 3 Version: 1.20.7 5

## Page 6

Foreword Personnel qualification This description is only intended for trained specialists in control, automation, and drive technology who are familiar with the applicable national standards. Signal words The signal words used in the documentation are classified below. In order to prevent injury and damage to persons and property, read and follow the safety and warning notices. Personal injury warnings DANGER Hazard with high risk of death or serious injury. WARNING Hazard with medium risk of death or serious injury. CAUTION There is a low-risk hazard that could result in medium or minor injury. Warning of damage to property or environment NOTICE The environment, equipment, or data may be damaged. Information on handling the product This information includes, for example: recommendations for action, assistance or further information on the product. 6 Version: 1.20.7 Twin CAT 3

## Page 7

Foreword 1.3 Notes on information security The products of Beckhoff Automation Gmb H & Co. KG (Beckhoff), insofar as they can be accessed online, are equipped with security functions that support the secure operation of plants, systems, machines and networks. Despite the security functions, the creation, implementation and constant updating of a holistic security concept for the operation are necessary to protect the respective plant, system, machine and networks against cyber threats. The products sold by Beckhoff are only part of the overall security concept. The customer is responsible for preventing unauthorized access by third parties to its equipment, systems, machines and networks. The latter should be connected to the corporate network or the Internet only if appropriate protective measures have been set up. In addition, the recommendations from Beckhoff regarding appropriate protective measures should be observed. Further information regarding information security and industrial security can be found in our https://www.beckhoff.com/secguide. Beckhoff products and solutions undergo continuous further development. This also applies to security functions. In light of this continuous further development, Beckhoff expressly recommends that the products are kept up to date at all times and that updates are installed for the products once they have been made available. Using outdated or unsupported product versions can increase the risk of cyber threats. To stay informed about information security for Beckhoff products, subscribe to the RSS feed at https:// www.beckhoff.com/secinfo. Twin CAT 3 Version: 1.20.7 7

## Page 8

Quick start 2 Quick start The following quick guide describes the standard way of Twin CAT 3 licensing: Use of a Twin CAT 3 license dongle with licenses already activated for the respective license dongle. With a Twin CAT 3 license dongle, the Twin CAT 3 license is independent of the IPC used, as all required Twin CAT 3 licenses are “on board” the license dongle. This makes it easy to replace the IPC or use the Twin CAT 3 licenses on different IPCs. However, the Twin CAT 3 license must cover the Twin CAT 3 platform level of the IPC. The Twin CAT 3 license dongles are available in the form of a C9900-L100 license key USB stick or an EL6070 License Key Terminal. The Twin CAT 3 licenses already activated in Beckhoff production for the respective license dongle can be freely defined from quantity 1. Twin CAT 3 licenses for non-Beckhoff IPCs If you use an IPC from a manufacturer other than Beckhoff (Twin CAT 3 platform level >= 90), a Twin CAT 3 license dongle is always required for licensing Twin CAT 3. Twin CAT 3.1 Build 4024 or higher With a Twin CAT 3 license dongle, Twin CAT 3.1 Build 4024 or higher should be used. Using Twin CAT 3 license dongles In the project, a Twin CAT 3 license dongle must be configured once for the master image. Automatic recognition and integration of Twin CAT 3 license dongles is not yet available in the current Twin CAT version. During (series) production of the machine, the Twin CAT 3 license dongle is plugged into the preconfigured position, in order to activate the required Twin CAT 3 licenses on the machine. See also: Configuration of a Twin CAT 3 license dongle [} 27] An IPC with a Twin CAT 3 license dongle can be easily replaced, as all required Twin CAT 3 licenses are “on board” the license dongle. Please ensure that the respective Twin CAT 3 platform level [} 12] of the IPCs is covered by the Twin CAT 3 license. From Twin CAT 3.1 Build 4022, it is possible to downgrade Twin CAT 3 standard licenses to lower platform levels. Twin CAT 3 license directory Twin CAT does not work directly with the license files on the license dongle, but rather with a working copy on the hard disk of the IPC in the license folder c:\twincat\3.1\target\license. This is automatically downloaded from the license dongle to the hard disk of the IPC when the Twin CAT 3 Runtime is started, if it is not yet available in the license directory. Memory function for systems with Windows Embedded Compact For systems with Windows Embedded Compact (formerly Windows CE), automatic download of the license file is only supported with Twin CAT 3.1 Build 4022 or higher. Ordering Twin CAT 3 license dongles with preactivated Twin CAT 3 licenses for the respective license dongle The easiest way is to order a license dongle with preactivated Twin CAT 3 licenses. The Twin CAT 3 licenses no longer have to be activated by yourself. The order must be structured in such a way that it is clear which Twin CAT 3 licenses belong to which Twin CAT 3 license dongle. Order numbers for Twin CAT 3 license dongles with preactivated Twin CAT 3 licenses: • EL6070-0033 for the Ether CAT License Key Terminal 8 Version: 1.20.7 Twin CAT 3

## Page 9

Quick start • C9900-L100-0033 for the license key USB stick The designation “…-0033” in the order number of the Twin CAT 3 license dongle indicates that preactivated Twin CAT 3 licenses are to be installed on this Twin CAT 3 license dongle. Order numbers for preactivated Twin CAT 3 licenses: The third from last digit of the Twin CAT order number indicates whether activation for a Twin CAT 3 license dongle is to take place at Beckhoff during production. The last two digits of the Twin CAT order number represent the Twin CAT 3 platform level (in the example: 50). Example: • TC1200-0150 • TF5000-0150 Structure of the order: The hardware for which the Twin CAT 3 licenses are to be preactivated is always listed first in the order. The corresponding Twin CAT 3 licenses are then listed directly behind it. Example: • 5 x EL6070-0033 • 5 x TC1200-0150 • 5 x TF5000-0150 or • 3 x C9900-L100-0033 • 3 x TC1250-0190 • 3 x TF6100-0190 The example represents five EL6070 Ether CAT License Key Terminals with preactivated license configuration TC1200 + TF 5000 for platform level 50, and three further C9900-L100 license key USB sticks with the preactivated license configuration TC1250 + TF6100 for platform level 90. The number of individual licenses must always correspond exactly to the number of license dongles (or, in the case of license instances, a multiple thereof). Ordering Twin CAT 3 licenses with license instances Some Twin CAT 3 licenses may be required not just once, but several times in a project. Example: Licenses for Twin CAT 3 HMI Client (TF2010, TF2020, …). The number of such single licenses in the order must always be a multiple of the number of license dongles. Example: • 5 x EL6070-0033 • 5 x TF2000-0150 • 10 x TF2020-0150 (= 2 client license packs (with 3 license instances each) per license dongle) Important information: 1. Identical licenses that do not contain any license instances (e.g. TC1200) may not be listed several times in succession for the same license dongle. 2. All license instances of a license pack (e.g. TF2040, TC3 HMI Clients Pack 25) can only be used for a single license device and cannot, for example, be distributed to several license dongles. Negative examples (orders in this form are not allowed): • Multiple single licenses are prohibited: ◦ 5 x EL6070-0033 ◦ 10 x TC1200-0150 (NOT ALLOWED; only 5 allowed) ◦ 5 x TC1200-0150 (NOT ALLOWED; this license may not be listed a second time.) Twin CAT 3 Version: 1.20.7 9

## Page 10

Quick start • A pack of license instances may not be split: ◦ 10 x EL6070-0033 ◦ 1 x TF2030-0150 (TC3 HMI Clients Pack with 10 license instances → NOT ALLOWED!) Reordering of Twin CAT 3 licenses for Twin CAT 3 license dongles If additional Twin CAT 3 licenses (e.g. Twin CAT 3 Functions) are ordered for an existing Twin CAT 3 license dongle, these cannot be preactivated by Beckhoff for the license dongle. This is only possible if the corresponding license dongle is included in the same order and is therefore physically available for activation by Beckhoff during production. This means that re-ordered Twin CAT 3 licenses must be activated and copied to the license dongle by the client. See also: • Activating standard licenses manually [} 49] • Saving license files manually on the dongle [} 39] Twin CAT 3 licenses that are not to be preactivated by Beckhoff are marked by “2” as the third from last digit of the order number. Examples: • TC1200-0250 • TF5000-0250 Upon receipt of the order confirmation, these Twin CAT 3 licenses can be activated immediately. To do this, create a so-called “License Request File [} 49]” with the desired Twin CAT 3 licenses and send it by email to the Beckhoff license server. E-mail address of the Beckhoff Twin CAT 3 license server E-mail address for activation of Twin CAT 3 licenses by the user: tclicense@beckhoff.com 10 Version: 1.20.7 Twin CAT 3

## Page 11

Introduction 3 Introduction Licenses for Twin CAT 3 Engineering and Twin CAT 3 Runtime components Twin CAT 3 consists of the Twin CAT 3 development environment (Twin CAT 3 Engineering, XAE) and the Twin CAT 3 runtime environment (Twin CAT 3 Runtime, XAR). The Twin CAT 3 development environment is usually installed on the development PC, while the Twin CAT 3 Runtime is installed on the control computer, although both may be installed on the same computer. For example, the development computer can be used simultaneously as a test control computer without the need for an independent control computer. PCs developed for office use do not generally meet the requirements for a platform for hard real- time (low jitter, etc.) and are thus only conditionally suitable for use as control computers. The core of Twin CAT 3 Engineering (PLC programming) is free of license costs and can be installed on any number of development computers. Various functions extending beyond pure PLC programming (Twin CAT 3 functions) and all Twin CAT 3 runtime licenses are chargeable, however. The Twin CAT 3 Engineering and the Twin CAT 3 runtime components can be downloaded free of charge from the Beckhoff homepage. Licenses for education and training The free Twin CAT 3 download enables a straightforward, unbureaucratic acquisition for education and training purposes. The Twin CAT 3 development environment can be installed on any number of development computers. The 7-day trial license [} 72] for Twin CAT 3 products, which can be renewed over and over again, enables Twin CAT functionalities to be used in a straightforward and cost-effective manner in the lab. Requirements for high-level language programming in Twin CAT 3 Programming in high-level languages (such as C++) with Twin CAT 3 requires the full version of Microsoft Visual Studio, which has to be acquired separately from Microsoft and installed before Twin CAT 3. Twin CAT can then be integrated in the full version of Visual Studio during installation. Twin CAT 3 licenses for non-Beckhoff IPCs If you use an IPC from a manufacturer other than Beckhoff (Twin CAT 3 platform level >= 90), a Twin CAT 3 license dongle is always required for licensing Twin CAT 3. For the operation of Twin CAT 3 on virtual machines please refer to the Twin CAT License Agreement [} 11] and the notes on the Beckhoff website. 3.1 Twin CAT 3 license agreement You can find the Twin CAT 3 license agreement here. 3.2 License types Twin CAT 3 standard license Twin CAT 3 standard licenses are tied to a unique system ID of a Twin CAT 3 license dongle (or IPC). From Twin CAT 3.1 Build 4022, it is possible to downgrade a Twin CAT 3 standard license when using a Twin CAT 3 license dongle. The Twin CAT 3 license can therefore also be used for hardware platform levels that are lower than specified when activating the license. Twin CAT 3 standard licenses are subject to a fee. The license price depends on the hardware platform level. Twin CAT 3 Version: 1.20.7 11

## Page 12

Introduction See also: Ordering of Twin CAT 3 standard licenses [} 45] Special Twin CAT 3 license types Twin CAT 3 trial license Most Twin CAT 3 runtime products can be activated in the Twin CAT 3 development environment as often as required and free of charge for 7 days. This can be very useful for commissioning or servicing. The trial licenses allow you to run quick tests and bridge the time period until full licenses are available. The creation of a trial license requires the Twin CAT 3 development environment. It is not possible to create a trial license in the Twin CAT 3 Runtime. See also: Twin CAT 3 trial license [} 72] Twin CAT 3 volume license Twin CAT 3 volume licenses are linked to the so-called volume system ID of an IPC or Twin CAT 3 license dongle, which consists of a unique customer-specific volume ID for the volume license, the platform level of the IPC and the device type (IPC or Twin CAT 3 license dongle). The volume system ID is the same for all IPCs or Twin CAT 3 license dongles with a volume license and identical hardware platform level. Twin CAT 3 volume licenses are usually preactivated. The aim of the volume licenses was to enable series machine builders with a large number of similar machines with identical Twin CAT 3 license configurations to use the volume licensing technology for easy handling of the licenses, since IPCs can be easily exchanged and licenses do not have to be activated by the user. However, Twin CAT 3 license dongles now provide a much more flexible solution. Nowadays, a Twin CAT 3 volume license is therefore only useful in a few special cases. See also: Twin CAT 3 volume license [} 75] 3.3 Core components of Twin CAT 3 licensing This chapter describes the core components and important basic terms of Twin CAT 3 standard licenses. 3.3.1 Twin CAT 3 License ID The 8-digit Twin CAT 3 License ID is referenced to the order in which the associated Twin CAT 3 license was ordered from Beckhoff Deutschland. All licenses in the associated order can be activated with the License ID. If you have not yet received a License ID for your Twin CAT 3 licenses, please get in touch with your Beckhoff sales contact and ask them for a Twin CAT 3 license certificate [} 46] for the desired licenses. 3.3.2 Twin CAT 3 platform level (performance level) Twin CAT 3 Runtime components are available for different platforms (performance levels, platform levels). The Twin CAT 3 license price depends on the platform level. Examples of Twin CAT 3 platform levels: 12 Version: 1.20.7 Twin CAT 3

## Page 13

Introduction High Performance Platform Level Depending on the computing power above platform levels 80 and 90, there are four further platform levels (81-84 and 91-94) The detection of platform levels of many-core IPCs is version-dependent. Twin CAT versions older than Twin CAT 3.1 Build 4020.10 cannot recognize these and output them as 80 or 90. When updating from a Twin CAT version lower than Twin CAT 3.1 Build 4020.10 to a current version, the original license files are no longer valid. In this case, contact Beckhoff support. From Twin CAT 3.1 Build 4022, a platform level downgrade option is available for dongle-related licenses. For level 9x licenses, this includes the corresponding level 8x licenses. Level 91 therefore includes level 81, level 92 includes level 82, etc. See also: Downgrade of Twin CAT 3 standard licenses [} 45] Twin CAT 3 Version: 1.20.7 13

## Page 14

Introduction Several system IDs A Twin CAT 3 license dongle has no platform level of its own. This is dependent on the platform level of the connected computer. Since the platform level of the computer goes into the system ID of the dongle, a Twin CAT 3 license dongle can have several system IDs. See also: System ID of Twin CAT 3 license dongles [} 14] 3.3.3 Twin CAT 3 system ID The Twin CAT 3 system ID is a general, unique identification code for the respective hardware (Twin CAT 3 license dongle or IPC). Each Beckhoff IPC or e PC has an individual, unique system ID, which cannot be modified. The system ID of a Twin CAT 3 license dongle depends on the respective platform level of the connected IPC. The system ID of a Twin CAT 3 license dongle contains the Twin CAT platform level. Since a Twin CAT 3 license dongle does not have its own platform level due to the fact that it does not have its own CPU, the platform level is provided by the connected IPC. A Twin CAT 3 license dongle can thus have several system IDs, depending on the connected IPC. In other words, the system ID of a Twin CAT 3 license dongle always depends on the platform level of the connected IPC. Displaying the system ID in the Twin CAT 3 development environment (XAE) The system ID of the target system (IPC = target hardware) is displayed on the Order Information tab in the Twin CAT 3 Engineering license manager. To open the license manager, double-click on License in the SYSTEM subtree of the Solution Explorer. 14 Version: 1.20.7 Twin CAT 3

## Page 15

Introduction The system ID of a Twin CAT 3 license dongle is displayed in the dongle properties in the License Device window. To open this window, double-click on the respective dongle entry in the SYSTEM > License subtree in the Solution Explorer. Displaying the system ID in the Twin CAT 3 Runtime (XAR) In the Twin CAT 3 Runtime (XAR), the system ID of the IPC is displayed after a right-click on the Twin CAT 3 icon in the taskbar and a click on the About menu item in the Twin CAT System window that opens. Twin CAT 3 Version: 1.20.7 15

## Page 16

Introduction In the current Twin CAT version, the system ID of a connected Twin CAT 3 license dongle can not be displayed in the Twin CAT 3 Runtime. 3.3.4 Twin CAT 3 license dongle Twin CAT 3 standard licenses are tied to a specific hardware (via their individual Twin CAT 3 system ID). This is usually a Twin CAT 3 license dongle in the form of an EL6070 License Key Terminal or a C9900-L100 license key USB stick or, in special cases, a Beckhoff IPC. Compared to licensing an IPC, a Twin CAT 3 license dongle offers significantly greater flexibility with regard to the control computer used, since Twin CAT 3 licenses are no longer tied to a specific IPC and only has to match the hardware platform level of the associated Twin CAT 3 license. This is a great advantage when servicing is required, for example. Twin CAT 3 licenses for non-Beckhoff IPCs If you use an IPC from a manufacturer other than Beckhoff (Twin CAT 3 platform level >= 90), a Twin CAT 3 license dongle is always required for licensing Twin CAT 3. Several system IDs A Twin CAT 3 license dongle has no platform level of its own. This is dependent on the platform level of the connected computer. Since the platform level of the computer goes into the system ID of the dongle, a Twin CAT 3 license dongle can have several system IDs. See also: System ID of Twin CAT 3 license dongles [} 14] 16 Version: 1.20.7 Twin CAT 3

## Page 17

Introduction Coverage of the platform level The platform level of the computer must always be covered by the Twin CAT 3 licenses on the license dongle. See also: Working with Twin CAT 3 license dongles [} 27] 3.3.5 License Request File and License Response File Twin CAT root directory <Twin CAT_ROOT> Up to and including Twin CAT 3.1.4024: C:\Twin CAT From Twin CAT 3.1.4026: C:\Program Data\Beckhoff\Twin CAT License Request File When activating Twin CAT 3 licenses manually via the Beckhoff licensing server, a "License Request File" must be generated in Twin CAT 3 Engineering. See also: Creating License Request Files [} 49] License Request Files are hardware-specific. In addition to a list of the requested Twin CAT 3 licenses, they contain the platform level and the system ID of the individual Twin CAT 3 license dongle (or IPC). The created Twin CAT 3 license applies only for the individual hardware on which the licensing is based. It is not transferable. A License Request File is a normal XML file. You can easily view the content with a suitable editor (e.g. XML Notepad or Notepad++) and edit the License Request File to remove superfluous licenses from the file, for example. Make sure the inner structure is not damaged. When the License Request File is signed by the Beckhoff licensing server, it becomes a "License Response File". License Response File The License Response File is generated by the Beckhoff licensing server in response to a licensing request (i.e. a signed License Request File) and returned to the requester. The signature validates the content and protects against content changes. You can view the content with a suitable editor, but you are not allowed to edit the License Response File, as it becomes invalid when the content changes (signature no longer matches the content of the file). However, you can change the file name. The License Response File contains one or more individual Twin CAT 3 licenses for an individual Twin CAT 3 license dongle (or Beckhoff IPC). It is hardware-specific and non-transferable. The License Response File only works with the individual hardware on which the licensing is based. The License Response File is saved in the Twin CAT 3 license folder (<Twin CAT_ROOT>\3.1\target\license) of the target system. Any subdirectories in this folder will be ignored by Twin CAT 3. In this directory Twin CAT 3 automatically creates a copy of the license files contained on a Twin CAT 3 license dongle. Twin CAT 3 only works with license files in the above directory, therefore a working copy of the license files from the license dongle must also be available there. The most important data from the "License Info" section of the License Request/Response File is shown below: • System ID [} 14] (green) • Performance Level [} 12] (yellow) • License ID [} 12] (blue) • Twin CAT 3 licenses (red) Twin CAT 3 Version: 1.20.7 17

## Page 18

Introduction Representation of the values in the Twin CAT 3 development environment: 18 Version: 1.20.7 Twin CAT 3

## Page 19

Introduction 3.4 Twin CAT 3 License TANs So-called "License TANs" have been optionally available for the activation of Twin CAT 3 licenses [} 49] since 01/01/2019. They can be taken from the Twin CAT 3 license certificate and represent a sort of "serial number" of a Twin CAT license with which this license can be clearly identified: Twin CAT 3 Version: 1.20.7 19

## Page 20

Introduction Twin CAT 3 License TANs are used in the activation of Twin CAT 3 licenses by the user [} 57] in order to activate a clearly defined license (within an order). As opposed to that, it is possible in principle to activate any licenses in an order with the help of the Twin CAT 3 License ID (-> reference to the order number). (This also means that all licenses existing in an order can be activated if the License ID is known; if a Twin CAT 3 License TAN is known, only this one associated license can be activated). To make the simple and secure management of single Twin CAT 3 licenses possible for users, they can also be ordered in the form of single license certificates (i.e. each single license (and License TAN) has its own license certificate). Please get in touch with your Beckhoff sales contact regarding this. Twin CAT 3 License TANs for different orders may be mixed and used within a License Request File [} 17]. This is not possible with the Twin CAT 3 License ID; a dedicated License Request File must be created for each License ID. 3.5 Determining required licenses While working in the Twin CAT development environment (XAE), Twin CAT automatically detects all required licenses. For example, as soon as a PLC project is added, a corresponding "TC1200 PLC" license is added to the list of required licenses. 20 Version: 1.20.7 Twin CAT 3

## Page 21

Introduction In the Project Licenses tab of the Twin CAT 3 license manager you can see which licenses Twin CAT 3 has automatically determined and where the license request comes from. To open the Twin CAT 3 license manager, double-click on License in the System subtree of the Solution Explorer. On the Manage Licenses tab, you can specify the licenses to be transferred to the License Request File. In addition to the licenses that are automatically determined as required, you can also manually add licenses to your project that you may need later. Enabling/disabling automatic detection of the required licenses You can use the option Disable automatic detection of required licenses for project to disable automatic detection of the licenses required for the project and select or deselect each license individually. If the checkbox is unchecked, you cannot deselect the licenses required for the project. Twin CAT 3 Version: 1.20.7 21

## Page 22

Introduction 3.6 Checking license dependencies Twin CAT 3 licenses may contain other licenses or require other licenses. You can determine these dependencies in the Twin CAT 3 license manager. 1. Open the Twin CAT 3 license manager by double-clicking License in the System subtree of the Twin CAT project tree. 2. Open the Manage Licenses tab. 3. Double-click the corresponding license. ð The License Information window opens and shows details of the selected license. Example for included licenses: Example for required licenses: 22 Version: 1.20.7 Twin CAT 3

## Page 23

Introduction 3.7 Determining the license status You can display the Twin CAT 3 license status both in Twin CAT 3 Engineering and in the Twin CAT 3 Runtime. 3.7.1 License overview in Twin CAT 3 Engineering (XAE) Correct target system Note that the license manager always applies to the target system for the Twin CAT 3 project! In the Twin CAT 3 development environment, you can determine the license status in the Twin CAT 3 license manager on the Online Licenses tab. ü The Twin CAT 3 development environment has been started and a project is loaded. 1. Set the desired target system. To do this, select the target system from the Choose Target System dropdown list in the Twin CAT XAE Base Toolbar Options: If the target system is the local computer, select <Local>. Twin CAT 3 Version: 1.20.7 23

## Page 24

Introduction If the target system is a remote computer, select it from the list or select "Choose Target System" and configure the target system. (If necessary, a new ADS route will be created.) ð The licensing settings in the license manager refer precisely to the target system set here. When the project is activated on the target system, the corresponding Twin CAT 3 licenses are automatically copied to this system. 2. Open the Twin CAT 3 license manager by double-clicking License in the System subtree of the Twin CAT project tree. 3. Open the Online Licenses tab. ð The overview shows which licenses are activated for this project (through one or more License Response Files). If these are License Response Files for Twin CAT 3 license dongles, the status "Pending" may be displayed there (before the Twin CAT 3 Runtime is started). This means that the License Response File has been detected as valid in principle, but the content cannot yet be released because there is no connection to the associated Twin CAT 3 license dongle. The connection to the Twin CAT 3 license dongle is only established when the Twin CAT 3 Runtime is started and the Ether CAT bus has "OP" status, for example. 3.7.2 License overview in the Twin CAT 3 Runtime (XAR) If you do not have access to the Twin CAT 3 development environment and the current project, you can determine the license status of your control computer via the Twin CAT 3 Runtime. ü You have access to the Windows Desktop (via remote desktop or a connected monitor and mouse) on the control computer. 24 Version: 1.20.7 Twin CAT 3

## Page 25

Introduction 1. Right-click on the Twin CAT Runtime icon in the Windows taskbar. 2. Click on the entry About Twin CAT in the menu that opens. ð The About Twin CAT System window opens, showing a list of the licenses contained in this Twin CAT 3 Runtime, the Hardware Platform Level, the System ID and Device Type ID of the computer. If the computer is equipped with a volume license, the Volume System ID will also be shown here. With a Twin CAT 3 license dongle the license status is "Pending" if there is no connection to the associated Twin CAT 3 license dongle. The Device Type ID is displayed from Twin CAT Version 3.1 Build 4022.4. This is an item of internal information that identifies the device type. Only validated Twin CAT 3 licenses switch the Ether CAT bus to status "OP". If the Ether CAT bus in Twin CAT 3 Run mode is not in "OP" state, the required Twin CAT 3 licenses could probably not be validated. This may be the case if a Twin CAT 3 license dongle is used, for example, and the License Response File does not match the Twin CAT 3 license dongle used. Twin CAT 3 Version: 1.20.7 25

## Page 26

Introduction See also: Twin CAT 3 license dongle [} 65] 3.8 Requesting previously issued licenses again from the license server If for any reason the Twin CAT 3 license file no longer exists (for example, because a new image was loaded to the computer and the license file was not backed up beforehand), the license file can be requested again from the Twin CAT 3 license server. To do this you have to create a Request File [} 49] for the original license device (Beckhoff IPC or Twin CAT 3 dongle) with one of the contained licenses (the TC1000 license is usually the best and simplest choice) and send it to the license server (tclicense@beckhoff.com). It is not necessary to quote a License ID [} 12] or a License TAN [} 19]. (However, as the License ID is a mandatory field in the Twin CAT Engineering, an entry has to be made here. You may enter an arbitrary string). The license server now sends a License Response File containing all the licenses that have been issued before for the System ID specified in the License Request File. In this case the license server always generates a single new License Response File. If, for example, the licenses originate from several orders or have been licensed in two or more requests, they will be combined in the new License Response File. The name of the new License Response File may therefore differ from the name of the original license file. A Twin CAT 3 dongle may have different Dongle System IDs depending on the Platform Level of the computer to which it is connected. With the current version of the license server the licenses must be called with the System ID (of the dongle) with which they were originally activated. 26 Version: 1.20.7 Twin CAT 3

## Page 27

Working with Twin CAT 3 license dongles 4 Working with Twin CAT 3 license dongles Twin CAT 3 licenses for non-Beckhoff IPCs If you use an IPC from a manufacturer other than Beckhoff (Twin CAT 3 platform level >= 90), a Twin CAT 3 license dongle is always required for licensing Twin CAT 3. Supported operating systems Unlimited use of a Twin CAT 3 license dongle requires Twin CAT Runtime (XAR), even if only one engineering function is used. The operating systems supported by Twin CAT Runtime can be found in the System requirements chapter. Using a Twin CAT dongle under Windows 11 Using a Twin CAT 3 license dongle under Windows 11 requires Twin CAT Build 4026 at minimum. Twin CAT 3.1 Build 4024 or higher With a Twin CAT 3 license dongle, Twin CAT 3.1 Build 4024 or higher should be used. Several system IDs A Twin CAT 3 license dongle has no platform level of its own. This is dependent on the platform level of the connected computer. Since the platform level of the computer goes into the system ID of the dongle, a Twin CAT 3 license dongle can have several system IDs. See also: System ID of Twin CAT 3 license dongles [} 14] Twin CAT 3 license dongles with memory function for the Twin CAT 3 license file are the default option for Twin CAT 3 licensing, as they can be used flexibly and are not tied to a fixed license configuration or customer-specific hardware. A Twin CAT 3 license dongle makes it easy to replace the control computer, as the new IPC does not have to be licensed. The minimum version for using Twin CAT 3 license dongles is Twin CAT 3.1 Build 4018.26. A Twin CAT 3 license dongle can be an EL6070 License Key Terminal or a C9900-L100 license key USB stick. For technical reasons, the current Twin CAT version does not yet offer fully automatic detection of a license dongle. A license dongle must therefore always be configured in Twin CAT 3 Engineering. The configuration is saved in the project. Twin CAT root directory <Twin CAT_ROOT> Up to and including Twin CAT 3.1.4024: C:\Twin CAT From Twin CAT 3.1.4026: C:\Program Data\Beckhoff\Twin CAT Creating a local working copy of the license file Twin CAT 3 does not work directly with the License Response Files on the license dongle, but with a "working copy" of the files on the hard disk of the IPC (directory: <Twin CAT_ROOT>\3.1\target\license). Twin CAT 3 Version: 1.20.7 27

## Page 28

Working with Twin CAT 3 license dongles Do not deactivate automatic download of license files The license files must be downloaded manually or automatically once when starting the Twin CAT 3 Runtime (if required). Automatic download is preconfigured in Twin CAT 3 Engineering and should not be disabled. The name of the license files downloaded from the Twin CAT 3 license dongle in the license folder begins with "Cache...". If automatic downloading is configured in Twin CAT 3 Engineering, Twin CAT 3 checks at Runtime startup whether there are license files on the dongle that are not yet present in the license working directory of the IPC (<Twin CAT_ROOT>\3.1\target\license). If this is the case, the files are copied from the dongle into the license directory of the IPC. The Runtime must then be restarted to validate the newly copied license files. Initialization and position of the License Key Terminal in the Ether CAT bus The license key terminal is not automatically detected in the current Twin CAT version. It must be initialized and set as license device once in the project. The License Key Terminal must therefore always be positioned at precisely the location in the Ether CAT bus that was configured for the respective project. Build initialization and slot for the license key USB stick The license key USB stick is not automatically detected in the current Twin CAT version. It must be initialized and set as license device once in the project. However, the license key USB stick is not tied to a specific USB slot. 4.1 Commissioning and configuring license dongles Use the latest ESI files If your ESI files (Ether CAT Description Files for Beckhoff Ether CAT products) currently installed in Twin CAT 3 do not support the dongle version you are currently using, the dongle cannot be detected correctly. You can download the current ESI files here: https://www.beckhoff.com/en-us/support/download-finder/configuration-files/ Before working with a Twin CAT 3 license dongle in Twin CAT 3 Engineering, set the target system into which the license dongle is integrated. Integrating the EL6070 license key terminal Integrate the EL6070 license key terminal into the Ether CAT network connected to the IPC to be licensed. The license key terminal must subsequently always be plugged into this position in the Ether CAT bus. 28 Version: 1.20.7 Twin CAT 3

## Page 29

Working with Twin CAT 3 license dongles In the Twin CAT System Manager, use a scan of the connected devices to check whether the system finds the EL6070 license key terminal. If the system does not find the EL6070 license key terminal, the license key terminal cannot be selected later. Connecting the C9900-L100 license key USB stick Connect the C9900-L100 license key USB stick to a USB port of your IPC. The USB dongle can may subsequently be plugged in to other USB ports. In the Twin CAT System Manager, use a scan of the devices connected to the USB ports to check whether the system finds the C9900-L100 license key USB stick. If the system does not find the license key USB stick, it cannot be selected later. The following configuration is identical for both license dongle types. Adding a license dongle to the license configuration 1. Add a license dongle to the license configuration: Twin CAT 3 Version: 1.20.7 29

## Page 30

Working with Twin CAT 3 license dongles • In the Solution Explorer, select the License node in the SYSTEM subtree and select Add New Item from the context menu. • To open the license manager, double-click on License in the SYSTEM subtree of the Solution Explorer. Enable the Order Information tab and click Add. Differences in the "Search USB Dongle on Target" and "Search in I/O configuration" buttons: 30 Version: 1.20.7 Twin CAT 3

## Page 31

Working with Twin CAT 3 license dongles Search in I/O configuration This is the standard method. The USB dongle is stored in the configuration of the project. An entry in the "currentconfig.sys" file is used to control that a license file that is not yet in the license folder of the IPC is automatically copied to the license folder of the IPC when Twin CAT Runtime is started. Afterwards, a manual restart of the runtime is required, as this cannot be triggered automatically for security reasons! The license files can also be copied manually into the license folder via the "Cache Dongle Licenses" button and are then immediately available. Note that the license files are checked when Twin CAT Runtime is started and then approximately every two minutes. The license status displayed in Twin CAT represents the results of the last license check and does not reflect the current contents of the license directory. The pure (manual) copying of the license files into the license folder therefore does not lead to an immediate change of the license status displayed in Twin CAT. Search USB Dongle on Target With this method, a Twin CAT USB dongle can be found in the system and communicated with. The USB dongle is NOT stored in the configuration of the project. There is also no entry in the "currentconfig.sys" file which would cause a license file that is not yet in the IPC's license folder to be automatically copied to the IPC's license folder when Twin CAT Runtime is started. • ALWAYS manually download the license files contained on the dongle into the license directory of the IPC once. This method of using a USB dongle is therefore not suitable for applications where a USB dongle is to be replaced later and then used automatically, since the license files of the new dongle would have to be copied to the target system manually. An example application for the Search USB Dongle on Target button is its implementation for engineering licenses. If in doubt, always use the "Search in I/O configuration" button! To use a USB dongle, e.g. with engineering licenses, the relevant license file simply needs to be available in the license directory of the IPC. No further configuration is required in this case. Twin CAT 3 Version: 1.20.7 31

## Page 32

Working with Twin CAT 3 license dongles Configuring the license dongle 1. Click Search. ð The Select I/O Box/Terminal window opens. 2. Select the desired license dongle and accept the selection with OK. ð Each configured license dongle is displayed below the License node in the Solution Explorer: The name of the dongle cannot be changed in the current Twin CAT 3 version. Checking the license dongle status Double-click on the dongle entry in the project tree to display the dongle properties in the License Device [} 42] window. 32 Version: 1.20.7 Twin CAT 3

## Page 33

Working with Twin CAT 3 license dongles • If a connection to the license dongle has been established, the dongle status is "valid". This is also indicated by a green color of the status field. • If the connection to the dongle could not be established (e.g. because the dongle was disconnected), this is indicated by the dongle status "No Connection" and a red color of the status field. The System ID displayed is the ID from the last contact with the configured dongle. It does not necessarily match the ID of the currently inserted dongle. Updating the license dongle status manually In configuration mode Twin CAT has no connection to the license dongle. The displayed parameters originate from the last contact to this dongle. If you replace the license dongle with a different license dongle, for example, you must manually update the status of the license dongle. Twin CAT 3 Version: 1.20.7 33

## Page 34

Working with Twin CAT 3 license dongles To update the dongle data, click on Reload Info under the dongle properties in the License Device [} 42] window. Removing the license dongle from the license configuration To remove the dongle from the list, select the corresponding dongle entry in the project tree and select Remove from the context menu. When the project is saved, the configuration data is permanently stored in the project. 34 Version: 1.20.7 Twin CAT 3

## Page 35

Working with Twin CAT 3 license dongles 4.2 Determining the current status of a license dongle Outdated information on the license dongle The dongle status is not updated automatically. This update must be triggered manually. The information displayed via the dongle may therefore still originate from the last time that this dongle was accessed and does not necessarily match the dongle currently being used. • Update the status of the license dongle manually. These are the following (normal) Twin CAT 3 system states: 1. Twin CAT is running in Run Mode: In this system state, the dongle window cannot communicate with the dongle 2. Twin CAT runs in Config Mode with "Free Run": In this system state, the dongle window can communicate with the dongle 3. Twin CAT runs in Config Mode without "Free Run": In this system state, the dongle window can only communicate with the dongle if all drivers for the IO devices of the Ether CAT bus are loaded. To receive information on the current dongle status, open the License Device [} 42] window by clicking on the corresponding dongle entry in the License subtree under SYSTEM: Make sure that Twin CAT 3 is running in Config Mode (blue button in the System Manager toolbar is active): If Twin CAT 3 is not yet running in Config Mode, click on the blue button. Information: This stops any user program that may be running. If the system has been started directly in Config Mode but not in Free Run mode, it may be that not all drivers for the IO devices of the Ether CAT bus have been loaded yet. Click on the Reload Devices button in the System Manager to load all drivers: Twin CAT 3 Version: 1.20.7 35

## Page 36

Working with Twin CAT 3 license dongles Now you can click on the Reload Info button in the dongle window to read in the current dongle information. The Reload Info button must be pressed after changing the dongle, as the data of the new dongle is not automatically displayed. 4.3 Memory function of the license dongles All currently available Twin CAT license dongles have a memory function The very first version of EL6070 and C9900-L100 did not yet support the memory function. However, the memory function is now standard for Twin CAT license dongles. The following description therefore only applies to the first generation of EL6070 and C9900-L100. Memory function of the EL6070 License Key Terminal The EL6070 License Key Terminal supports the function of storing the Twin CAT 3 License Response Files on the terminal (from hardware revision 17 and firmware revision 04). The firmware version can be read from the type number of the terminal. 36 Version: 1.20.7 Twin CAT 3

## Page 37

Working with Twin CAT 3 license dongles Older versions cannot be updated. Memory function of the C9900-L100 license key USB stick The license key USB stick supports the function of storing Twin CAT 3 License Response Files on the USB stick in all versions. The license key USB stick is NOT a normal memory USB stick. It can only be accessed via Twin CAT and is therefore not visible in Windows Explorer. Files can only be saved or read from the license key USB stick via Twin CAT 3. The installation of Twin CAT 3 also includes the installation of the required Windows drivers for the license key USB stick. The Twin CAT 3 license key USB stick cannot be used without installing the Twin CAT Runtime, since the Twin CAT Runtime is responsible for validating Twin CAT licenses. The Twin CAT 3 license dongles differ only in the physical interface (Ether CAT or USB). The configuration and operation of the two Twin CAT 3 license dongles is therefore largely identical. Prerequisite for using the memory function Use Twin CAT 3.1 Build 4022 or higher (Twin CAT 3 Engineering and Twin CAT 3 Runtime) to utilize the memory function. For systems with Windows Embedded Compact (formerly Windows CE), automatic download of the license file is only supported with Twin CAT 3.1 Build 4022 or higher. Twin CAT root directory <Twin CAT_ROOT> Up to and including Twin CAT 3.1.4024: C:\Twin CAT From Twin CAT 3.1.4026: C:\Program Data\Beckhoff\Twin CAT Creating a local working copy of the license file Twin CAT 3 does not work directly with the License Response Files on the license dongle, but with a "working copy" of the files on the hard disk of the IPC (directory: <Twin CAT_ROOT>\3.1\target\license). Twin CAT 3 Version: 1.20.7 37

## Page 38

Working with Twin CAT 3 license dongles Do not deactivate automatic download of license files The license files must be downloaded manually or automatically once when starting the Twin CAT 3 Runtime (if required). Automatic download is preconfigured in Twin CAT 3 Engineering and should not be disabled. The name of the license files downloaded from the Twin CAT 3 license dongle in the license folder begins with "Cache...". If automatic downloading is configured in Twin CAT 3 Engineering, Twin CAT 3 checks at Runtime startup whether there are license files on the dongle that are not yet present in the license working directory of the IPC (<Twin CAT_ROOT>\3.1\target\license). If this is the case, the files are copied from the dongle into the license directory of the IPC. The Runtime must then be restarted to validate the newly copied license files. 4.3.1 Copying license files from the dongle to the IPC Twin CAT root directory <Twin CAT_ROOT> Up to and including Twin CAT 3.1.4024: C:\Twin CAT From Twin CAT 3.1.4026: C:\Program Data\Beckhoff\Twin CAT See also the notes on the working directory for license files in section Local working copy of license files [} 39]. 1. Update the dongle status to ensure that Twin CAT Engineering can access the current dongle (see also Determining the current status of a license dongle [} 35]). 2. To copy the license files on the license dongle into the directory <Twin CAT_ROOT>\3.1\target\license on the target system (control computer), click Cache Dongle Licenses in the License Device [} 42] window. ð The license files are copied. The copies of the license files on the hard disk of the control computer have the prefix "cache..." to identify them as "cached" copies. Make sure the checkbox Update license cache using dongle content on startup is checked so that any new license files on the dongle are automatically copied to the license working directory of the control computer when the Twin CAT Runtime is started and thus made available to the Twin CAT Runtime. When the dongle is exchanged, for example, the corresponding new license files are automatically copied to the license working directory on the control computer. 38 Version: 1.20.7 Twin CAT 3

## Page 39

Working with Twin CAT 3 license dongles Twin CAT root directory <Twin CAT_ROOT> Up to and including Twin CAT 3.1.4024: C:\Twin CAT From Twin CAT 3.1.4026: C:\Program Data\Beckhoff\Twin CAT Creating a local working copy of the license file Twin CAT 3 does not work directly with the License Response Files on the license dongle, but with a "working copy" of the files on the hard disk of the IPC (directory: <Twin CAT_ROOT>\3.1\target\license). Do not deactivate automatic download of license files The license files must be downloaded manually or automatically once when starting the Twin CAT 3 Runtime (if required). Automatic download is preconfigured in Twin CAT 3 Engineering and should not be disabled. The name of the license files downloaded from the Twin CAT 3 license dongle in the license folder begins with "Cache...". If automatic downloading is configured in Twin CAT 3 Engineering, Twin CAT 3 checks at Runtime startup whether there are license files on the dongle that are not yet present in the license working directory of the IPC (<Twin CAT_ROOT>\3.1\target\license). If this is the case, the files are copied from the dongle into the license directory of the IPC. The Runtime must then be restarted to validate the newly copied license files. 4.3.2 Saving license files manually on the dongle ü The license file to be copied to the dongle can be located in any directory. ü Up to 20 license files with a total volume of up to 1 MB can be saved on the dongle. 1. Update first the dongle status to ensure that Twin CAT Engineering can access the current dongle (see also Determining the current status of a license dongle [} 35]). 2. To copy a license file to the memory of the license dongle, click on Store License on Dongle in the License Device [} 42] window. ð An Explorer window appears in which you can select the file to save. In order to be able to save a License Response File in a Twin CAT 3 license dongle, the file name must be 32 characters long or less. The current Twin CAT 3 version does not yet provide an overview of the files or licenses stored on the dongle or a function block for program-controlled saving of the file on the license dongle. Twin CAT 3 Version: 1.20.7 39

## Page 40

Working with Twin CAT 3 license dongles 4.3.3 PLC function blocks relating to the storage function of the license dongles At least Twin CAT 3.1 Build 4022 and PLC Lib: Tc2_Utilities Version 3.3.26.0 The functionalities described require at least Twin CAT 3.1 Build 4022 and the PLC Lib: Tc2_Utilities Version 3.3.26.0 In order to be able to save a License Response File in a Twin CAT 3 license dongle, the file name must be 32 characters long or less. Reading the Storage Info and the file directory of a license dongle FUNCTION_BLOCK FB_Lic File Get Storage Info The function block reads the Storage Info of the license dongle and the file directory. The Storage Info contains administrative data of the storage medium (such as capacity, number of free bytes, number of files,…) and an array of the individual file entries (name, size, attributes,… of the file). VAR_INPUT s Net Id : T_Ams Net Id;(* Ams net id of dongle (USB: of PC ('' is local PC); EL6070: of Ether CAT Master (info data of terminal)) *) n Port : UINT; (* Ams port of dongle (USB: ADS Port of ESB Device (e.g. 16#7100); EL6070: ADS Port of Ether CAT terminal (info data)) *) b Execute : BOOL; (* Rising edge on this input activates the fb execution *) dw Pass Code : DWORD; (* Passcode for file access *) t Timeout : TIME := DEFAULT_ADS_TIMEOUT;(* ADS timeout *) END_VAR VAR_OUTPUT b Busy : BOOL; (* True as long as the FB is busy *) b Error : BOOL; (* True in case of an error *) n Error Id : UDINT; (* Error code in case of an error *) n File Entries : UDINT; (* Amount of files on dongle *) END_VAR VAR_IN_OUT st Storage Info : ST_Lic Storage Info; (* Header + files infos from dongle *) END_VAR Creating a file on a license dongle FUNCTION_BLOCK FB_Lic File Create The function block creates a file on the license dongle. A rising edge at b Execute writes the data from the buffer (p Write Buff and cb Write Len) directly onto a new file on the dongle. VAR_INPUT s Net Id : T_Ams Net Id;(* Ams net id of dongle (USB: of PC ('' is local PC); EL6070: of Ether CAT Master (info data of terminal)) *) n Port : UINT; (* Ams port of dongle (USB: ADS Port of ESB Device (e.g. 16#7100); EL6070: ADS Port of Ether CAT terminal (info data)) *) s File Name : STRING; (* File name to write to dongle *) p Write Buff : PVOID; (* Buffer address for write *) cb Write Len : UDINT; (* Count of bytes for write *) b Execute : BOOL; (* Rising edge on this input activates the fb execution *) dw Pass Code : DWORD; (* Passcode for file access *) t Timeout : TIME := DEFAULT_ADS_TIMEOUT;(* ADS timeout *) END_VAR VAR_OUTPUT b Busy : BOOL; (* True as long as the FB is busy *) b Error : BOOL; (* True in case of an error *) n Error Id : UDINT; (* Error code in case of an error *) END_VAR Deleting a file from a license dongle FUNCTION_BLOCK FB_Lic File Delete The function block deletes a file from the license dongle. The file name and file length are zeroed, and the data bytes of the file to be deleted are released on the dongle but not overwritten. 40 Version: 1.20.7 Twin CAT 3

## Page 41

Working with Twin CAT 3 license dongles VAR_INPUT s Net Id : T_Ams Net Id;(* Ams net id of dongle (USB: of PC ('' is local PC); EL6070: of Ether CAT Master (info data of terminal)) *) n Port : UINT; (* Ams port of dongle (USB: ADS Port of ESB Device (e.g. 16#7100); EL6070: ADS Port of Ether CAT terminal (info data)) *) s File Name : STRING; (* File name to delete from dongle *) b Execute : BOOL; (* Rising edge on this input activates the fb execution *) dw Pass Code : DWORD; (* Passcode for file access *) t Timeout : TIME := DEFAULT_ADS_TIMEOUT;(* ADS timeout *) END_VAR VAR_OUTPUT b Busy : BOOL; (* True as long as the FB is busy *) b Error : BOOL; (* True in case of an error *) n Error Id : UDINT; (* Error code in case of an error *) END_VAR Reading a file from the terminal/USB dongle FUNCTION_BLOCK FB_Lic File Read The function block reads a file from the license dongle to a buffer (p Dest Buff and cb Read Len) via a positive edge at b Execute. The buffer must be large enough for the file, otherwise only the first part of the file is read. VAR_INPUT s Net Id : T_Ams Net Id;(* Ams net id of dongle (USB: of PC ('' is local PC); EL6070: of Ether CAT Master (info data of terminal)) *) n Port : UINT; (* Ams port of dongle (USB: ADS Port of ESB Device (e.g. 16#7100); EL6070: ADS Port of Ether CAT terminal (info data)) *) s File Name : STRING; (* File name to write to dongle *) p Dest Buff : PVOID; (* Buffer address for read *) cb Read Len : UDINT; (* Count of bytes for read *) b Execute : BOOL; (* Rising edge on this input activates the fb execution *) dw Pass Code : DWORD; (* Passcode for file access *) t Timeout : TIME := DEFAULT_ADS_TIMEOUT;(* ADS timeout *) END_VAR VAR_OUTPUT b Busy : BOOL; (* True as long as the FB is busy *) b Error : BOOL; (* True in case of an error *) n Error Id : UDINT; (* Error code in case of an error *) END_VAR Copying a file from the hard disk to the terminal/USB dongle FUNCTION_BLOCK FB_Lic File Copy To Dongle The function block copies a file from the hard disk to the license dongle. If the file is larger than the buffer (cb Copy Len), the file copying procedure is automatically split into several read and write operations until the whole file is copied. Only then does b Busy switch to FALSE. VAR_INPUT s Net Id Src : T_Ams Net Id; (* Ams net id of PC ('' is local PC) *) s Net Id Dest : T_Ams Net Id; (* Ams net id of dongle (USB: of PC ('' is local PC); EL6070: of Ether CAT Master (info data of terminal)) *) n Port Dest : UINT; (* Ams port of dongle (USB: ADS Port of ESB Device (e.g. 16#7100); EL6070: ADS Port of Ether CAT terminal (info data)) *) s File Path Name Src : T_Max String; (* File path name on disk *) s File Name Dest : STRING; (* File name for file on dongle *) p Copy Buff : PVOID; (* Buffer address for write *) cb Copy Len : UDINT; (* Count of bytes for write *) b Execute : BOOL; (* Rising edge on this input activates the fb execution *) dw Pass Code : DWORD; (* Passcode for file access *) t Timeout : TIME := DEFAULT_ADS_TIMEOUT;(* ADS timeout *) END_VAR VAR_OUTPUT b Busy : BOOL; (* True as long as the FB is busy *) b Error : BOOL; (* True in case of an error *) n Error Id : UDINT; (* Error code in case of an error *) END_VAR Copying a file from the terminal/USB dongle to the HDD FUNCTION_BLOCK FB_Lic File Copy From Dongle The function block copies a file from the license dongle to the hard disk. If the file is larger than the buffer (cb Copy Len), the file copying procedure is automatically split into several read and write operations until the whole file is copied. Only then does b Busy switch to FALSE. Twin CAT 3 Version: 1.20.7 41

## Page 42

Working with Twin CAT 3 license dongles VAR_INPUT s Net Id Src : T_Ams Net Id; (* Ams net id of dongle (USB: of PC ('' is local PC); EL6070: of Ether CAT Master (info data of terminal)) *) n Port Src : UINT; (* Ams port of dongle (USB: ADS Port of ESB Device (e.g. 16#7100); EL6070: ADS Port of Ether CAT terminal (info data)) *) s Net Id Dest : T_Ams Net Id; (* Ams net id of PC ('' is local PC) *) s File Name Src : STRING; (* File name for file on dongle *) s File Path Name Dest : T_Max String; (* File path name on disk *) p Copy Buff : PVOID; (* Buffer address for write *) cb Copy Len : UDINT; (* Count of bytes for write *) b Execute : BOOL; (* Rising edge on this input activates the fb execution *) dw Pass Code : DWORD; (* Passcode for file access *) t Timeout : TIME := DEFAULT_ADS_TIMEOUT;(* ADS timeout *) END_VAR VAR_OUTPUT b Busy : BOOL; (* True as long as the FB is busy *) b Error : BOOL; (* True in case of an error *) n Error Id : UDINT; (* Error code in case of an error *) END_VAR See also: • TE1000 XAE > PLC > Libraries > Twin CAT 3 PLC Lib: Tc2_Utilities 4.4 Removing a license dongle during operation If a Twin CAT 3 license dongle is removed while a program is running, Twin CAT 3 registers this. For safety reasons the user program is not stopped, in order to avoid unpredictable damage to the machine to be controlled. 4.5 License Device overview window The License Device overview window shows the properties and the status of a license dongle. You open the window by double-clicking on the dongle entry in the Twin CAT project tree. Hardware group box Dongle (EL6070 Ether CAT Terminal, USB) Name of the license dongle Dongle Status group box The parameters of the selected Twin CAT 3 license dongle are displayed under Dongle Status. 42 Version: 1.20.7 Twin CAT 3

## Page 43

Working with Twin CAT 3 license dongles System Id [} 14] System ID of the dongle The system ID depends on the platform level of the connected IPC. A dongle has a different system ID for each of the different platform levels. Volume Id [} 77] Volume ID (only for volume license dongle) The volume ID depends on the platform level of the connected IPC. A dongle has a different volume system ID for each of the different platform levels. Public Key Internal parameter Status Result of the last dongle status check The status shows the data from the last contact to the dongle. This may not match the data of a newly inserted dongle. To update, click the Reload Info button. Press this button after changing the dongle, as the data of the new dongle is not automatically displayed in the current Twin CAT version. Buttons and options Search [} 28] Select the desired dongle from a list of dongles detected by the system. Requirement: A scan of the IO area must have been carried out beforehand, and the respective dongle must be listed in the IO configuration. Reload Info [} 35] Reads the data of the displayed Twin CAT 3 license dongle and updates the display of the dongle parameters. If no valid data is displayed under Dongle Status (= no contact to the dongle has yet been established), the data can be read in again and updated using this button. Press this button after changing the dongle, as the data of the new dongle is not automatically displayed in the current Twin CAT version. Store License on Dongle [} 39] Copies a file to the memory of the Twin CAT 3 license dongle. After clicking on the button, a selection window opens in which the desired file can be selected on the hard disk of the IPC. Clear Dongle Storage Deletes all files on the Twin CAT 3 license dongle. (Deleting individual files is not yet available in the current Twin CAT version.). Cache Dongle Licenses [} 38] Copies all the files of the Twin CAT 3 license dongle to directory c: \Twin CAT\3.1\Target\Licenses on the hard disk of the IPC. Twin CAT 3 Version: 1.20.7 43

## Page 44

Working with Twin CAT 3 license dongles Update license cache using dongle When this checkbox is checked, Twin CAT 3 checks at every start of the Runtime whether the files on the hard disk correspond to those in content on startup [} 38] the memory of the license dongle. If the dongle contains newer or additional files, they are automatically downloaded to the hard disk of the IPC ("cached"). This checkbox should always be checked. 44 Version: 1.20.7 Twin CAT 3

## Page 45

Ordering of Twin CAT 3 standard licenses 5 Ordering of Twin CAT 3 standard licenses Twin CAT 3 licenses for non-Beckhoff IPCs If you use an IPC from a manufacturer other than Beckhoff (Twin CAT 3 platform level >= 90), a Twin CAT 3 license dongle is always required for licensing Twin CAT 3. 5.1 Preactivation of standard licenses by Beckhoff Twin CAT 3 licenses must always be activated for a certain hardware (by default a Twin CAT 3 license dongle) before they can be used. Activation can be carried out by Beckhoff during production or by the OEM after delivery. Twin CAT 3 licenses activated for a dongle by Beckhoff during production You can order Twin CAT 3 standard licenses together with a Twin CAT 3 license dongle and have these licenses preactivated for this dongle by Beckhoff during production. You then no longer have to activate these licenses yourself. This makes work preparation in series production much easier. A prerequisite is that you order the licenses and the Twin CAT 3 license dongle in the same order. The dongle must be physically present at Beckhoff during production. Non-preactivated Twin CAT 3 licenses Ordering non-preactivated Twin CAT 3 licenses usually has one of the following reasons: • Twin CAT 3 license dongle and licenses are included in different orders. • Ordering additional licenses for an existing Twin CAT 3 license dongle (e.g. adding a Twin CAT 3 function) • At the time of ordering the subsequent license combination on a Twin CAT 3 license dongle is not yet known. 5.2 Downgrade of Twin CAT 3 standard licenses The downgrading of Twin CAT 3 licenses works only with a Twin CAT 3 license dongle. The downgrade options for Twin CAT 3 standard licenses depend on the Twin CAT version used. From Twin CAT 3.1, build 4022 It is possible to downgrade Twin CAT 3 standard licenses. For example, you can use a USB dongle whose licenses have been activated for platform level 80 for lower platform levels (e.g. 20-70). Platform level 90 covers only platform level 80 and lower, not platform level 81, 82, 83, ... See also: Twin CAT 3 High Performance Platform Level [} 13] Up to Twin CAT 3.1 Build 4020 (inclusive) Twin CAT 3 standard licenses can only be used for exactly the same platform level as the activation. For example, you can use a USB dongle whose licenses have been activated for platform level 80 for lower platform levels (e.g. 20-70). Specification of the platform level of Twin CAT 3 standard licenses during activation Note that when activating a Twin CAT 3 standard license, the platform level of this license is permanently set. The platform level during activation may be lower than the level specified in the order. However, once activated the platform level cannot be changed. Twin CAT 3 Version: 1.20.7 45

## Page 46

Ordering of Twin CAT 3 standard licenses Example: The platform level in the order is 80. Activation takes place for platform level 50. Now the license can only be used for platform level 50 (and lower (build 4022 only)). This cannot be changed retrospectively. 5.3 Twin CAT 3 license certificate If you have special requirements for the content of a Twin CAT 3 license certificate, you can order it as a PDF file or as a paper document. You can also request custom versions informally at any time from your Beckhoff sales contact. The corresponding order numbers are: • TC0210 | Twin CAT License Certificate | PDF • TC0220 | Twin CAT License Certificate | Paper You may: • receive a single license certificate for all licenses included in an order (standard form). • receive separate license certificates for each license included in the order. • receive separate license certificates for certain license groups (e.g. licenses relating to machine configuration). 46 Version: 1.20.7 Twin CAT 3

## Page 47

Ordering of Twin CAT 3 standard licenses Please get in touch with your Beckhoff sales contact if you require a customized version of the license certificate or to request a license certificate for an order at a later date. Your contact can arrange for any form that may be required (paper document, PDF file) or grouping for a license certificate to be made available to you. Starting January 1, 2019, Twin CAT 3 license certificates include the new Twin CAT License TANs, i.e. the "serial numbers" of the Twin CAT 3 licenses. For information on how to use the Twin CAT License TAN, refer to section Entering License TANs in Twin CAT Engineering [} 57]. 5.4 Ordering standard licenses Twin CAT 3 standard licenses are always linked to specific hardware. This is usually a Twin CAT 3 license dongle (EL6070 License Key Terminal or C9900-L100 license key USB stick). In principle it is also possible to tie a Twin CAT 3 license to a specific Beckhoff IPC. However, this has the severe disadvantage that, if an IPC is replaced, the Twin CAT 3 licenses are no longer valid for the new IPC. If, on the other hand, the Twin CAT 3 licenses are tied to a Twin CAT 3 license dongle, the IPC can easily be replaced. In addition, only the IPC (without licenses) does have to be kept in stock for service purposes. Twin CAT 3 licenses for non-Beckhoff IPCs If you use an IPC from a manufacturer other than Beckhoff (Twin CAT 3 platform level >= 90), a Twin CAT 3 license dongle is always required for licensing Twin CAT 3. Several system IDs A Twin CAT 3 license dongle has no platform level of its own. This is dependent on the platform level of the connected computer. Since the platform level of the computer goes into the system ID of the dongle, a Twin CAT 3 license dongle can have several system IDs. See also: System ID of Twin CAT 3 license dongles [} 56] Ordering Twin CAT 3 standard licenses with and without preactivation To enable unambiguous assignment of Twin CAT 3 licenses for preactivation and the required licensing platform (dongle or IPC) in the order, please note the following when ordering: • The order number of the Twin CAT 3 license dongle indicates whether or not to preactivate licenses for the dongle: ◦ EL6070-0033 (or C9900-L100-0033) = Twin CAT 3 dongle with preactivated Twin CAT 3 licenses ◦ EL6070-0000 (or C9900-L100) = empty Twin CAT 3 dongle (without preactivated Twin CAT 3 licenses) • The order number of the Twin CAT 3 license is important for preactivating Twin CAT 3 licenses for a type ...-0033 dongle. In this case, the third from last digit of the Twin CAT 3 article number must be "1". Example: ◦ TC1200-0150 = preactivation by Beckhoff for a Twin CAT 3 license dongle in the same order • When reordering licenses for a Twin CAT 3 license dongle that is already with the customer, the license must be activated by the customer. In this case, the third from last digit of the Twin CAT 3 article number must be "2". Example: ◦ TC1200-0250 = no preactivation by Beckhoff (license activation by customer) • If the preactivation is to be carried out by Beckhoff (for a Beckhoff IPC in the same order), the third from last position of the Twin CAT 3 article number must be "0". Example TC1200-0050. • Structure the order in such a way that a unambiguous assignment of the licenses to the desired licensing platform is given. Example for ordering a Twin CAT 3 license dongle (with preactivated licenses): ◦ Dongle 1 ◦ Assigned license A ◦ Assigned license B Twin CAT 3 Version: 1.20.7 47

## Page 48

Ordering of Twin CAT 3 standard licenses ◦ Dongle 2 ◦ Assigned license A ◦ Assigned license C ◦ Assigned license D ◦ Assigned license E ◦ etc. • You can combine several license dongles with identical license configurations under the same item. Ordering Twin CAT 3 licenses with license instances The vast majority of Twin CAT 3 licenses are so-called "CPU licenses". This means that only one license is required (and allowed) per control computer. Example: TC1200 (PLC). However, some Twin CAT 3 licenses may be required more than once on a control computer, for example client access licenses for the Twin CAT HMI (TF2000). Depending on the product, these are offered individually or in bundles, e.g. in a pack of 5. However, for technical reasons, this pack of 5 is a CPU license (with 5 license instances included), and thus may only be activated once per system. (With the current Twin CAT license technology, a license instance may not contain further license sub-instances; the "main license" must therefore be a CPU license.) This means that the same packs may not be activated more than once on a system. Example: 13 HMI Client Access licenses are required. For example, you can activate these as one pack of 10 + one pack of 3 each, but not as 2 x pack of 5 + 1 x pack of 3. Ordering option for Beckhoff Industrial PCs and Embedded PCs: Pre-installation of the Twin CAT 3 runtime For Beckhoff IPCs, simply add the "TC1000-1000" ordering option: TC1000-1000 pre-installation of the Twin CAT 3 Runtime For Beckhoff Embedded PCs of the CX series, the pre-installation of the Twin CAT 3 Runtime is ordered differently. In order to determine whether a Beckhoff Embedded PC of the CX series should contain a pre- installed Twin CAT 3 Runtime (XAR), the last digit of the order number for the CX must be "5". Example: CX5120-0125 = Beckhoff IPC with pre-installed Twin CAT 3 runtime Twin CAT 3 licenses always have to be ordered separately. They are not automatically included in the preinstalled Twin CAT 3 runtime. 48 Version: 1.20.7 Twin CAT 3

## Page 49

Activating standard licenses manually 6 Activating standard licenses manually Twin CAT 3 licenses, which were not preactivated by Beckhoff for a Twin CAT 3 license dongle (or a Beckhoff IPC) and supplied together with the corresponding hardware have to be activated by the user. You can activate multiple licenses together if they come from the same order. If the licenses for a device originate from two or more orders, you must activate the licenses for each order individually. Only activate licenses for a particular order! Check whether the combination of licenses exactly matches the specified order confirmation (license ID)! Licenses that are not included in the order may result in an error message of the license server. 6.1 Licensing process The Twin CAT 3 licensing process is described below. Creating License Request Files: 1. Compilation of the desired licenses in the Twin CAT 3 license manager 2. Selecting the Twin CAT 3 license dongle or Beckhoff IPC to be licensed 3. Entering the Twin CAT License TANs [} 19] or the order number (license ID [} 12]) under which the licenses were ordered 4. Generating a License Request File (The Twin CAT platform level of the target hardware is automatically added) 5. Sending a license request file by email to the Beckhoff license server (tclicense@beckhoff.com) Importing and activating a License Response File: 1. The Beckhoff license server checks whether the specified licenses are available in the specified order, signs the License Request File, thereby creating a License Response File, and returns this by email. 2. Importing the License Response File in Twin CAT 3 (When the Twin CAT 3 Runtime starts, Twin CAT checks the platform level and the system ID and switches the licenses to valid.) 6.2 Creating License Request Files Procedure • Choose Target System [} 50] • Creating and checking a license list [} 50] • Specifying the license device [} 52] • Checking and setting the platform level [} 55] • Enter License ID or License TAN [} 57] Twin CAT 3 Version: 1.20.7 49

## Page 50

Activating standard licenses manually • Entering a customer Id [} 58] (optional) • Generate and send License Request File [} 59] Choose Target System In Twin CAT 3 Engineering (within a Twin CAT 3 project), a target system must be set for which license activation is to take place. If a Twin CAT 3 license dongle is used, this is the system to which the license dongle (for the activation process) is connected. The system does not have to correspond to the final system for a license dongle. Set the target system via the Choose Target System drop-down list in the Twin CAT XAE Base toolbar options of Twin CAT. If you select Local, the license is created based on the data from your Twin CAT Engineering system. Twin CAT 3 licenses for non-Beckhoff IPCs If you use an IPC from a manufacturer other than Beckhoff (Twin CAT 3 platform level >= 90), a Twin CAT 3 license dongle is always required for licensing Twin CAT 3. Creating and checking a license list 1. Open the Twin CAT 3 license manager by double-clicking on License in the SYSTEM subtree of your Twin CAT 3 project. 50 Version: 1.20.7 Twin CAT 3

## Page 51

Activating standard licenses manually ð In the Order Information tab in the lower part of the screen, you can see a list of licenses that Twin CAT has automatically detected based on your project. If you have added licenses manually, they will also be listed here. 2. In the Manage Licenses tab, you can manually change the list of licenses that should be included in the License Request File. Only select licenses that belong to a common order number. Only select licenses that are still missing in the system, not existing licenses! Only select licenses that do not yet exist! The Order Information tab always displays all licenses that are selected in the Manage Licenses tab. When the system is initially licensed, these are usually all required. When relicensing, i.e. adding more licenses to existing licenses, you must deselect all existing licenses in the Manage Licenses tab. Only the licenses that are still missing and to be activated should be listed in the Order Information tab. This is particularly important for license instances (e.g. axis license instances). 3. Create a License Request File for every order (and the relevant licenses) if your licenses are from two or more different orders. Twin CAT 3 Version: 1.20.7 51

## Page 52

Activating standard licenses manually 4. Check the Disable automatic detection of required licenses for project checkbox to switch off automatic detection of the licenses required for the project and to be able to select or deselect each license individually. If the checkbox is not checked, the licenses that are required for the project cannot be selected. 5. If you first disable automatic detection of the licenses required for the project, manually add a license detected as required, and then re-enable automatic detection, then that license will be listed twice in the License Request File. The manually set license is added to the automatically detected license and does not replace it. Specifying the license device The standard license device is a Twin CAT 3 license dongle. In exceptional cases, the IPC hardware can be used as a licensing basis. In this case, the Twin CAT 3 license is created for the selected, specific target system ("target hardware") and cannot be used on other IPCs. If the IPC licensed in this way is to be replaced, it is necessary to re-license the new IPC, as the licenses cannot be transferred or reused. Using the Twin CAT 3 license dongles avoids this disadvantage. Twin CAT 3 licenses for non-Beckhoff IPCs If you use an IPC from a manufacturer other than Beckhoff (Twin CAT 3 platform level >= 90), a Twin CAT 3 license dongle is always required for licensing Twin CAT 3. In order to be able to use a license dongle as a License Device, it must be connected to the target system [} 50] and configured in Twin CAT 3 (see also: Working with Twin CAT 3 license dongles [} 27]). Update the dongle status to ensure that Twin CAT 3 Engineering also accesses the dongle currently connected to the system and that the data displayed in the system is not from the last dongle to which a connection was established. For technical reasons (e.g. Ether CAT not in OP mode) there is no permanent connection to a Twin CAT 3 license dongle (see also: Determining the current status of a license dongle [} 35]). If at least one license dongle is configured, an additional License Device column is visible in the Order Information tab. 52 Version: 1.20.7 Twin CAT 3

## Page 53

Activating standard licenses manually In the License Device column, select the license device for which you want to activate the listed licenses. A License Request File can only be created for a single license device at a time. Twin CAT 3 Version: 1.20.7 53

## Page 54

Activating standard licenses manually 54 Version: 1.20.7 Twin CAT 3

## Page 55

Activating standard licenses manually Specify the license device for which the License Request File is to be created. For example, if you select "Dongle 1" here, all licenses that were not selected for dongle 1 will be grayed out and thus not included in the License Request File to be created. Checking and setting the platform level To be able to use any computer for generating a License Request File for a license dongle, Twin CAT 3.1 Build 4022 can be used to set the desired platform level [} 12] when creating the License Request File. For example, it is possible to create a License Request File for a Beckhoff IPC (= platform level 2x-8x) using a Twin CAT 3 license dongle connected to your notebook or your desktop computer (= platform level 90). When creating the License Request File [} 17], the platform level [} 12] must match the final target system. Select the platform level on the Order Information tab. Twin CAT 3 Version: 1.20.7 55

## Page 56

Activating standard licenses manually A license downgrade option is available with Twin CAT 3.1 Build 4022 or higher. The platform level set for activating the licenses can therefore be higher than that of the final target system if Build 4022 (or higher) is used on the target system. However, the platform level set must always be included in the order. When activating, you can specify a lower platform level than the level contained in the order. However, the license is permanently set to this lower platform level upon activation and cannot be used for a higher platform level, even if it is actually included in the order. The Twin CAT 3 license is issued for the system ID [} 14] specified in the License Request File. The system ID of a Twin CAT 3 license dongle contains the Twin CAT platform level. Since a Twin CAT 3 license dongle does not have its own platform level due to the fact that it does not have its own CPU, the platform level is provided by the connected IPC. A Twin CAT 3 license dongle can thus have several system IDs, depending on the connected IPC. In other words, the system ID of a Twin CAT 3 license dongle always depends on the platform level of the connected IPC. 56 Version: 1.20.7 Twin CAT 3

## Page 57

Activating standard licenses manually Input of the Twin CAT License TAN(s) Each Twin CAT 3 license has an individual Twin CAT 3 License TAN [} 19], a kind of "serial number" for this license. This License TAN can only be used to activate a specific license included in an order. You can combine License TANs from different orders in a License Request File. You can use License Response Files generated with License TANs with any Twin CAT 3 Runtime version. (See Reference via Twin CAT License TANs [} 57]) Twin CAT License TANs are listed in the Twin CAT license certificate: Note: You can request this license certificate from your Beckhoff sales contact if it has not already been sent to you together with the invoice. Input options for Twin CAT License TANs 1. For all Twin CAT Engineering versions you can specify one or more License TANs in the text field License Id. Multiple License TANs are simply separated by a common separator (comma, semicolon, ...). 2. A License TAN column was introduced with Twin CAT 3.1 Build 4022.4 in the list of licenses on the Order Information tab. Here you can alternatively enter the corresponding License TAN for the licenses to be activated: Twin CAT 3 Version: 1.20.7 57

## Page 58

Activating standard licenses manually The table display is clearer, but has the disadvantage that several License TANs cannot be entered in one process by copy & paste. Entering a customer Id (optional) Optionally you can enter a note in the Customer Id field, for example your internal SAP number. This field is a comment field. The information is included in the License Response File but is not evaluated by Twin CAT 3. The entry in this field is used in addition to the License Id to generate the name of the License Request File. You can also use it to control a part of the name of the generated License Request File. The content of this field is also displayed on the license certificate. 58 Version: 1.20.7 Twin CAT 3

## Page 59

Activating standard licenses manually Generate and send License Request File 1. On the Order Information tab, click Generate File to create a License Request File for the listed licenses. The requested license ID is valid. ð A window opens, in which you can specify where the License Request File is to be stored. (We recommend accepting the default settings.) Twin CAT 3 Version: 1.20.7 59

## Page 60

Activating standard licenses manually In order to be able to save a License Response File in a Twin CAT 3 license dongle, the file name must be 32 characters long or less. 1. Select a location and click Save. ð A prompt appears asking whether you want to send the License Request File directly to the Beckhoff license server: • If you want to send the License Request File right away, click Yes. A prerequisite is that an email program is installed on your computer and that your computer is connected to the internet. When you click Yes, the system automatically generates a draft email containing the License Request File with all the necessary information. • If no email program is installed on your computer or your computer is not connected to the Internet, click on No. Then copy the License Request File to a data storage device (e.g. USB stick) and send the file from a computer with Internet access and email program to the Beckhoff license server (tclicense@beckhoff.com). 2. Send the License Request File. ð The License Request File is sent to the Beckhoff license server. After receiving the email, the server compares your license request with the specified order number and returns a "License Response File" by email. The Beckhoff license server returns the License Response File to the same email address from which the License Request File was sent. ð The License Response File differs from the License Request File only by a signature that documents the validity of the license file content. You can view the contents of the License Response File [} 17] with an editor suitable for XML files (e.g. "XML Notepad"). ð Notice The contents of the License Response File must not be changed, otherwise the license file becomes invalid. ð The file name can be changed freely, but please never change the file type (.tclrs), otherwise the license file will not be recognized by Twin CAT. ð Together with the License Response File, you will also receive a license certificate in PDF format, which lists all licenses available for the specified System ID. You can use this license certificate for machine documentation, for example. 6.3 Creating License Request Files without Twin CAT Engineering (XAE) A small unsupported tool is available for creating a License Request file without using Twin CAT 3 Engineering (XAE). 60 Version: 1.20.7 Twin CAT 3

## Page 61

Activating standard licenses manually The tool requires Windows 7 (or its embedded version) or higher and cannot be used on Windows CE-based systems (Windows Embedded Compact). Download: Tc3Lic Req Gen Note: • The tool must be executed directly on the target system. • The tool can only generate License Request Files for the system on which it is executed. • The tool cannot generate License Request Files for Twin CAT 3 license dongles connected to the system. • Twin CAT 3 License TANs are entered in the "Purchase Order" field (marked red). Multiple License TANs are simply separated by a separator such as a comma or semicolon. • No documentation or support is available for the tool. • The included TMC files (= license description files) are not kept up to date. Therefore simply copy from a current Twin CAT 3 installation all files with the extension *.tmc from the directory C: \Twin CAT\3.1\Config\Io into the program directory of this tool. 6.4 Importing and activating a License Response File Activation of the License Response File in the Twin CAT 3 development environment (XAE) The simplest way to activate a Twin CAT 3 License Response File in the Twin CAT 3 development environment is to import it via the Twin CAT 3 license manager. 1. Open the License Manager and click the License Response File button on the Order Information tab. Twin CAT 3 Version: 1.20.7 61

## Page 62

Activating standard licenses manually 2. Select the desired License Response File from the file directory and import it. ð The license file is automatically loaded onto the target system. When the license file is imported, the license files are not automatically saved on the dongle. This has to be done manually. See also: Saving the license files on the dongle [} 39] Activation of the License Response File directly on the target system (Twin CAT 3 Runtime (XAR)) without Twin CAT 3 development environment (XAE) Copy the License Response File on the target system to the license folder and restart the Twin CAT 3 Runtime. License folder up to Twin CAT Build 4024 (inclusive): c:\Twin CAT\3.1\target\license License folder as of Twin CAT Build 4026: c:\Program Data\Beckhoff\Twin CAT\3.1\license Windows Embedded Compact (Windows CE): \Hard Disk\Twin CAT\3.1\target\license Twin CAT/BSD: /usr/local/etc/Twin CAT/3.1/target/license/ Beckhoff RT Linux® (only from Twin CAT Build 4026): /etc/Twin CAT/3.1/target/license/ The license files are not automatically saved on the dongle. This has to be done manually. See also: Saving the license files on the dongle [} 39] 6.5 Troubleshooting Problems with Twin CAT 3 licensing can usually be pinpointed and resolved with a few standard checks. In the following section they are divided and described in three categories. Twin CAT 3 licenses for non-Beckhoff IPCs If you use an IPC from a manufacturer other than Beckhoff (Twin CAT 3 platform level >= 90), a Twin CAT 3 license dongle is always required for licensing Twin CAT 3. Several system IDs A Twin CAT 3 license dongle has no platform level of its own. This is dependent on the platform level of the connected computer. Since the platform level of the computer goes into the system ID of the dongle, a Twin CAT 3 license dongle can have several system IDs. See also: System ID of Twin CAT 3 license dongles [} 56] 62 Version: 1.20.7 Twin CAT 3

## Page 63

Activating standard licenses manually 6.5.1 License Request file License Request File is rejected by the license server If the License Request File is rejected by the Beckhoff license server, this is usually because the licenses listed in the License Request File and the order specified in the License Request File (= License Id) do not match. This is generally due to one of the following reasons: 1. The License Request File contains licenses, which are not included in the specified order number. 2. The order does not contain a sufficient number of licenses. 3. The platform level in the License Request File does not match the platform level of the licenses in the order. 4. The order number is entered in the wrong field (= "Customer Id"). Compare the entries in the Order Information tab in the Twin CAT 3 license manager with your order data: Platform (yellow marking) Platform level License Id (blue marking) Order number (License Id) Order/License (red marking) Requested Twin CAT 3 licenses The order data can also be compared directly with the entries of the License Request File: Twin CAT 3 Version: 1.20.7 63

## Page 64

Activating standard licenses manually System Id Level (yellow marking) Platform level Purchase Order (blue marking) Order number (License Id) Order No (red marking) Requested Twin CAT 3 licenses If licenses are entered in the License Request File that do not exist in the order, you can delete them directly in the License Request File. Always delete the entire area belonging to the license (<License...> to </ License...>). The structure of the XML file must not be violated. Please contact Beckhoff Support (support@beckhoff.com) if the data in the License Request File match the data in your order, but the Beckhoff License Server nevertheless rejects the request. Beckhoff support can check whether sufficient licenses are still available in the order, for example. Add the License Request File to your support request. The data contained in it (e.g. the order number) enable Beckhoff support to solve your problem. 6.5.2 License Response File License Response Files are not detected The License Response File for Twin CAT 3 is located in the following directories: License folder up to Twin CAT Build 4024 (inclusive): c:\Twin CAT\3.1\target\license License folder as of Twin CAT Build 4026: c:\Program Data\Beckhoff\Twin CAT\3.1\license Windows Embedded Compact (Windows CE): \Hard Disk\Twin CAT\3.1\target\license Twin CAT/BSD: /usr/local/etc/Twin CAT/3.1/target/license/ Beckhoff RT Linux® (only from Twin CAT Build 4026): /etc/Twin CAT/3.1/target/license/ This directories may contain one or several License Response files; ideally, it should only contain License Response files that match the respective system (see: System ID). License Response Files that are not currently required can be moved into a subfolder of this directory, for example, where Twin CAT 3 will no longer detect them. 64 Version: 1.20.7 Twin CAT 3

## Page 65

Activating standard licenses manually Carry out the following actions if the Twin CAT 3 licenses cannot be detected correctly: • Delete all unnecessary license response files in the directory or move them to a subdirectory. • Check whether the system ID (including the platform level [} 12]) in the License Response File [} 17] matches the system ID (including the platform level) of your Twin CAT 3 license dongle (or IPC, if the licenses are licensed to the IPC). Example: System ID and platform level do not match. If you are using a Twin CAT 3 license dongle, check whether the license dongle is set as "License Device". The system ID of the Twin CAT 3 license dongle is shown on the License Device tab in the Twin CAT 3 license manager. The license won't work on this system if the platform level in the license file is lower than the platform level for the IPC! Several system IDs A Twin CAT 3 license dongle has no platform level of its own. This is dependent on the platform level of the connected computer. Since the platform level of the computer goes into the system ID of the dongle, a Twin CAT 3 license dongle can have several system IDs. See also: System ID of Twin CAT 3 license dongles [} 56] 6.5.3 Twin CAT 3 license dongle No "hot swap" The Twin CAT 3 license dongles must not be pulled or plugged in during operation. Twin CAT 3 Version: 1.20.7 65

## Page 66

Activating standard licenses manually Twin CAT 3 license dongle is not detected Twin CAT 3 does not automatically detect a Twin CAT 3 license dongle in the current version. The dongle must be configured in the project. Check whether the commissioning and configuration of the Twin CAT 3 license dongle [} 27] is error-free in order to exclude possible side effects within the project. Create an empty project if necessary. If the Twin CAT 3 license dongle is correctly detected in an empty project after an I/O configuration scan, changes may have been made in your project after the Twin CAT 3 license dongle has been configured. Typical errors can be the use of another Ether CAT slot or a change in the AMS NET ID. Since the Twin CAT 3 license dongle is not automatically detected in the current Twin CAT 3 version, it may only be inserted at the Ether CAT slot configured in the project after successful configuration. (Note: the TC3 USB dongle can be plugged into any slot.) The Twin CAT 3 license dongle is only initialized when the Twin CAT 3 Runtime is started. Twin CAT 3 remembers the "place" (= AMS Net ID) where it finds the license information and not a specific Twin CAT 3 license dongle. The AMS Net ID must therefore no longer change after configuring the license dongle, otherwise the Twin CAT 3 license dongle will no longer be detected. Licenses are not automatically loaded by the Twin CAT 3 license dongle The option Cache or check License Response Files during startup must be enabled in the License Device tab of the Twin CAT 3 license manager. Only then are Twin CAT 3 license files automatically copied (and used) from the Twin CAT 3 license dongle to the hard disk of the IPC when the Twin CAT 3 Runtime is started (if required). If Twin CAT 3 detects new license files on the Twin CAT 3 license dongle when starting the Runtime, these are downloaded. Twin CAT 3 must then restart the Runtime. The name of the license files downloaded from the dongle starts with "Cache….". Licenses for the Twin CAT 3 license dongle have the status "Pending" A two-stage procedure is used for validating License Response Files for Twin CAT 3 license dongles: 1. Is the license file basically valid? (→ file signature is correct) 66 Version: 1.20.7 Twin CAT 3

## Page 67

Activating standard licenses manually 2. Does the system contain a matching Twin CAT 3 license dongle (at the configured location)? As long as no license dongle matching the License Response File is found, the status of the Twin CAT 3 license is "Pending". In Twin CAT Engineering, check whether the system ID of your Twin CAT 3 license dongle [} 23] matches the system ID of your License Response File [} 17]. In the following example, the system IDs do not match. Twin CAT 3 Runtime: License status is "Valid", but the application is not working Check whether the Ether CAT bus is in "OP" mode. If this is not the case, the license file in c: \twincat\3.1\target\license probably does not match your Twin CAT 3 license dongle. Check whether the system ID shown in the runtime [} 24] matches the system ID in the License Response file [} 17]. Example: The system IDs do not match, the licenses are not valid for this license dongle: Twin CAT 3 Version: 1.20.7 67

## Page 68

Activating standard licenses manually Remove all license files that are not required from the license folder. 6.5.4 Non-Beckhoff IPCs For IPCs that do not originate from Beckhoff, a Twin CAT 3 license dongle must always be used. See: Changing the licensing basis (device change) [} 70] 68 Version: 1.20.7 Twin CAT 3

## Page 69

Re-retrieving the License Response File and license certificate from the license server 7 Re-retrieving the License Response File and license certificate from the license server The License Response File [} 17] for licenses that have already been activated once can be re-retrieved from the Twin CAT 3 license server at any time. To do this, create a License Request File [} 49] for the desired device (Twin CAT 3 license dongle or Beckhoff IPC). Use Restore as the License ID and only select TC1000 as the license. Send this License Request File to the Twin CAT 3 license server (tclicense@beckhoff.com). The Twin CAT 3 license server then sends a License Response File back to you containing all the licenses that have already been activated for the corresponding system ID. Together with the License Response File, you will also receive a license certificate in PDF format, which lists all licenses available for the specified system ID. You can use this license certificate for machine documentation, for example. NOTICE Name change possible This License Response File is freshly created for your request by the license server and may therefore have a different file name to the original License Response File. Twin CAT 3 Version: 1.20.7 69

## Page 70

Changing the licensing basis (device change) 8 Changing the licensing basis (device change) Twin CAT 3 licenses for non-Beckhoff IPCs If you use an IPC from a manufacturer other than Beckhoff (Twin CAT 3 platform level >= 90), a Twin CAT 3 license dongle is always required for licensing Twin CAT 3. In principle, you can apply to change the licensing basis for a Twin CAT 3 license, e.g. in the event of a device fault (device replacement) or a change to a license dongle (a Twin CAT 3 license dongle offers many advantages due to its flexibility). Contact our Service Dept. for this (service@beckhoff.com). A helpful tutorial can be found on the Beckhoff website under "Tutorial: Change of licensing basis (device change)". You can also find the application form under the "Change of the licensing basis (device change)" point on the Beckhoff website. 70 Version: 1.20.7 Twin CAT 3

## Page 71

Errorcodes of the activation server 9 Errorcodes of the activation server The License Request File is automatically handled by the Beckhoff activation server and a corresponding License Response File is created. This will then be sent to the customer by email. The following table provides an overview of possible error messages from the Beckhoff activation server and offers troubleshooting suggestions. Error ID Explanation Procedure 999 The number of product licenses Please ensure that you have ordered the correct number of requested in the Request File is licenses, and that these have not already been activated on no longer available for the other devices. specified order number. Make sure that you have not listed any licenses in the License Request File that are not included in the order. The License Request File is an XML file and can easily be opened with suitable editors, e.g. Notepad++. For general queries relating to your order please contact your Beckhoff sales contact, referring directly to the Beckhoff order number. If the licensing attempt is based on hardware replacement, please contact Beckhoff service. 1000 The order number specified in Make sure you have used the correct order number in the the Request File does not exist. License ID field. Generate another Twin CAT 3 Request File and send it to tclicense@beckhoff.com. For general queries relating to your order please contact your Beckhoff sales contact, referring directly to the Beckhoff order number (VExxxx). 1100 The licenses requested in the Make sure you only request licenses in the Request File that Request File are not included in you have actually ordered. In case of queries please contact the specified order number. your Beckhoff sales contact, referring directly to the Beckhoff order number (VExxxx). 1200 The transmitted Request File Create a new Request File. Ensure that the Beckhoff order does not contain an order number (VExxxx) pertaining to your Twin CAT 3 order was number. entered in the License ID field. 1300 The transmitted Request File Check whether you have set the correct target system. Once does not contain a System ID. the target system has been set, generate another Request File and send it to tclicense@beckhoff.com. If you continue to receive this error message, contact Beckhoff support. 1400 The transmitted Request File Check whether the required licenses are listed in the Order does not contain a license. Information tab. All the licenses required by Twin CAT 3 solution are automatically entered there by default. If this is not the case, enter the licenses manually using the Manage Licenses tab. 1500 The Request File you sent is Create another Twin CAT 3 Request File via Twin CAT XAE and not readable. send it to tclicense@beckhoff.com. If you continue to receive this error message, contact Beckhoff support. If you receive an error ID that is not listed in the above table, try to resend the Request File after a few minutes. Twin CAT 3 Version: 1.20.7 71

## Page 72

Special Twin CAT 3 license types 10 Special Twin CAT 3 license types 10.1 Twin CAT 3 test licenses A trial license (7-day test version) cannot be enabled for a Twin CAT 3 license dongle [} 16]. Twin CAT 3 test licenses can be activated as often as required in the Twin CAT 3 development environment (XAE) for a period of 7 days. An internet connection is not required. The Twin CAT 3 development environment automatically detects any required trial licenses and asks, e.g. when the project is activated on the target system, whether the required test licenses (for the target system) should be activated. You can also select Twin CAT 3 test licenses in the Twin CAT 3 License Manager [} 49] on the "Manage Licenses [} 50]" tab and then manually create them on the "Order Information" tab. Twin CAT 3 test licenses cannot be generated with the Twin CAT 3 Runtime (XAR). They cannot be generated for Twin CAT 3 license dongles either, but only for the set target system (IPC or engineering computer). 10.1.1 Creating trial licenses manually You can manually generate Twin CAT 3 test licenses in the Twin CAT 3 development environment. ü The Twin CAT 3 development environment has been started and a project is loaded. 1. Set the desired target system. To do this, select the target system from the Choose Target System dropdown list in the Twin CAT XAE Base Toolbar Options: If the target system is the local computer, select <Local>. 72 Version: 1.20.7 Twin CAT 3

## Page 73

Special Twin CAT 3 license types If the target system is a remote computer, select it from the list or select "Choose Target System" and configure the target system. (If necessary, a new ADS route will be created.) ð The licensing settings in the license manager refer precisely to the target system set here. When the project is activated on the target system, the corresponding Twin CAT 3 licenses are automatically copied to this system. 2. Open the Twin CAT 3 license manager by double-clicking License in the System subtree of the Twin CAT project tree. Twin CAT 3 Version: 1.20.7 73

## Page 74

Special Twin CAT 3 license types 3. Open the Manage Licenses tab 4. Select all licenses you want to add to your Twin CAT 3 project. To do this, select the Ignore Project Licenses checkbox. This disables automatic detection of the required licenses and allows you free license selection. If you do not check the checkbox, the licenses required for the project are automatically selected and cannot be deselected. 5. Then open the Order Information (Runtime) tab. 6. Click on 7 Days Trial License... to activate the Twin CAT 3 trial licenses. 74 Version: 1.20.7 Twin CAT 3

## Page 75

Special Twin CAT 3 license types ð A dialog box opens, prompting you to enter the security code displayed in the dialog. 7. Enter the code exactly as it is displayed and click on OK. ð The licenses marked in the Manage Licenses tab are activated as trial licenses for 7 days. 10.2 Twin CAT 3 volume licenses Requirements for Twin CAT 3 volume licensing: • Only available for Beckhoff IPCs/e PCs or Beckhoff Twin CAT 3 license dongles • High number of identical Beckhoff IPCs with identical (or lower) Twin CAT 3 platform level. • Only available for Twin CAT 3 Runtime licenses (i.e. not for the Twin CAT 3 development environment) • Identical Twin CAT 3 volume license for all Beckhoff IPCs For customers requiring simple license handling for a large number of identical Beckhoff IPCs, the only option available in the past was volume licensing for the Twin CAT 3 Runtime (XAR). The Twin CAT 3 license dongles in the "... -0033" version (e.g. EL6070-0033) now offer a licensing option that has the technical advantages of volume licenses (no activation, easy replacement of the IPC) without their technical disadvantages (no flexibility in license configuration, customer-specific production). Adding Twin CAT 3 standard licenses If required, Twin CAT 3 standard licenses (e.g. for Twin CAT 3 functions) can be added on each IPC individually in addition to the Twin CAT 3 volume license, although they are not included in the volume licensing. They are subject to the normal restrictions for standard licenses, e.g. in the event of a replacement of an IPC. Additional standard licenses are tied to the individual system ID of the respective IPC or the respective Twin CAT 3 license dongle in the conventional way. 10.2.1 Core components This chapter explains important basic terms for volume licensing of Twin CAT 3. 10.2.1.1 Twin CAT 3 platform level (performance level) Twin CAT 3 platform level (performance level) Twin CAT 3 Runtime components are available for different platforms (performance levels, platform levels). The Twin CAT 3 license price depends on the platform level. Examples of Twin CAT 3 platform levels: Twin CAT 3 Version: 1.20.7 75

## Page 76

Special Twin CAT 3 license types High-performance platform level From Twin CAT 3.1 Build 4020.10 or higher, there are four new platform levels (81-84 and 91-94), depending on the computing power above platform levels 80 and 90 With a Twin CAT 3 volume license, license downgrades have always been possible. An activated Twin CAT 3 license for a higher platform level can be used on a target system with a lower performance level. For example, you can license and activate platform level 80 and then use the licenses on all systems with platform levels 20-70. For Twin CAT standard licenses, this option is only available with Build 4022. 76 Version: 1.20.7 Twin CAT 3

## Page 77

Special Twin CAT 3 license types 10.2.1.2 Beckhoff volume system ID With a Twin CAT 3 volume license a Beckhoff IPC or Twin CAT 3 license dongle is assigned a unique, customer-specific volume ID, in addition to the system ID. The volume system ID is assigned to the individual volume license for a particular customer, and the unique licensing reference refers to precisely this volume license for this customer. The volume system ID includes the volume ID of the corresponding volume license, the platform level of the IPC, the device type (IPC/dongle) and other components. • The volume system ID is assigned to an individual volume license, not to individual hardware. • The volume system ID is the same for all IPCs or license dongles with a volume license and identical platform level. Devices with a different platform level but the same volume license have a different volume system ID. • The volume license can only be used in conjunction with the appropriate volume system IDs. • The volume system ID is not transferable. It cannot be transferred to another customer or to another Twin CAT 3 license combination other than that specified in the volume license. • The volume system ID and system ID can be used in parallel on a system. Volume licenses and standard licenses can therefore be used in parallel on a control computer, for example to extend the volume license with individual Twin CAT 3 functions on the respective computer. • During the production of an IPC the volume system ID is stored on the mainboard (not on the hard disk) and cannot be changed later. • During the production of the license dongles (in this case always customer-specific), the volume system ID (except the platform level) is stored permanently in the license dongle and cannot be changed later. The platform level of the connected IPC is later automatically added by Twin CAT. • A Twin CAT 3 license dongle with a volume license is customer-specific and always has a customer- specific order number. The Twin CAT 3 license dongle is included in the customer-specific order number of the volume license and is not ordered separately. Displaying the volume system ID in the Twin CAT 3 development environment (XAE) In Twin CAT 3 Engineering the volume system ID of a Twin CAT 3 license dongle is displayed in the License Device tab of the license manager. To open the license manager, double-click on License in the SYSTEM subtree of the Solution Explorer. Displaying the volume system ID in the Twin CAT 3 Runtime (XAR) In the Twin CAT 3 Runtime (XAR), the volume system ID of an IPC that was produced for a volume license is displayed next to the system ID of the IPC by right-clicking on the Twin CAT 3 icon in the taskbar and then clicking on the About menu item in the About Twin CAT System window that opens. Twin CAT 3 Version: 1.20.7 77

## Page 78

Special Twin CAT 3 license types Under Twin CAT version 3.1 Build 4020, display of the system ID of the Twin CAT 3 license dongle in the Twin CAT 3 Runtime is not yet available. 10.2.1.3 Twin CAT 3 license dongle Twin CAT 3 volume licenses cannot be ordered without a corresponding (reference) hardware, which is used as a reference for the volume ID of the Twin CAT 3 volume license. Twin CAT 3 volume licenses are therefore always ordered and delivered in conjunction with a Beckhoff IPC or a Twin CAT 3 license dongle in the form of an EL6070 license key terminal or a license key USB stick. Compared to licensing an IPC, a Twin CAT 3 license dongle offers significantly greater flexibility with regard to the control computer used, since Twin CAT 3 licenses are no longer tied to a specific IPC and only has to match the hardware platform level of the associated Twin CAT 3 license. This is a great advantage when servicing is required, for example. Note that a Twin CAT 3 volume license terminal requires a suitable ESI file belonging to this Ether CAT Terminal. This is not supplied with Twin CAT as standard, since a Twin CAT 3 volume license terminal is a custom product. The ESI file must be downloaded once from the Beckhoff website. See also: Configuring the license key terminal with volume licenses [} 81] 10.2.1.4 License Response File License Response File The Volume License Response File is stored in the Twin CAT 3 license dongle or in the Beckhoff IPC with this volume license. If you have lost the Volume License Response File for your volume license (e.g. due to a hard disk crash), you can request it again from Beckhoff support. The License Response File contains a general Twin CAT 3 license for all IPCs or EL6070 license key terminals with the corresponding volume system ID. It can thus be transferred to all systems with the same volume system ID if they meet the requirements (operating system and Twin CAT 3 platform level of the respective volume license). The License Response File is stored on the target system in directory c:\twincat\3.1\target\license. For a dongle-based volume license, License Response Files have been delivered on license dongles since mid-2017. Storing the license information (License Response File) Twin CAT 3 license dongles have a memory function so that the license file can be stored on the license dongle and easily transported together with the dongle. Twin CAT 3 does not access the license file on the license dongle directly, but creates a working copy on the hard disk of the IPC. The name of this working copy starts with "Cache…". The license information (License Response File) is always stored on the hard disk of the IPC (directory: c: \twincat\3.1\target\license). Prerequisite for using the memory function Use Twin CAT 3.1 Build 4022 or higher (Twin CAT 3 Engineering and Twin CAT 3 Runtime) to utilize the memory function. For systems with Windows Embedded Compact (formerly Windows CE), automatic download of the license file is only supported with Twin CAT 3.1 Build 4022 or higher. 78 Version: 1.20.7 Twin CAT 3

## Page 79

Special Twin CAT 3 license types All currently available Twin CAT license dongles have a memory function The very first version of EL6070 and C9900-L100 did not yet support the memory function. However, the memory function is now standard for Twin CAT license dongles. The following description therefore only applies to the first generation of EL6070 and C9900-L100. Memory function of the EL6070 License Key Terminal The EL6070 License Key Terminal supports the function of storing the Twin CAT 3 License Response Files on the terminal (from hardware revision 17 and firmware revision 04). The firmware version can be read from the type number of the terminal. Older versions cannot be updated. Memory function of the C9900-L100 license key USB stick The license key USB stick supports the function of storing Twin CAT 3 License Response Files on the USB stick in all versions. The license key USB stick is NOT a normal memory USB stick. It can only be accessed via Twin CAT and is therefore not visible in Windows Explorer. Files can only be saved or read from the license key USB stick via Twin CAT 3. The installation of Twin CAT 3 also includes the installation of the required Windows drivers for the license key USB stick. The Twin CAT 3 license key USB stick cannot be used without installing the Twin CAT Runtime, since the Twin CAT Runtime is responsible for validating Twin CAT licenses. 10.2.2 Ordering volume licenses Twin CAT 3 volume licenses cannot be ordered without a corresponding (reference) hardware. Twin CAT 3 volume licenses are therefore always ordered and delivered in conjunction with a Twin CAT 3 license dongle or a Beckhoff IPC. Please note that, if a volume license is required for a Beckhoff IPC, this Beckhoff IPC must be ordered together with the volume license, because only then can the volume ID required for the volume license be entered in the EPROM of the Beckhoff IPC during production. Twin CAT 3 Version: 1.20.7 79

## Page 80

Special Twin CAT 3 license types Even a Twin CAT 3 license dongle with a volume license cannot be ordered separately (without license). It can only be ordered together with a corresponding Twin CAT 3 volume license, since otherwise the Twin CAT 3 license dongle cannot be used for a volume license. Ordering process for Twin CAT 3 volume licenses • Contact your local Beckhoff branch to request a Twin CAT 3 volume license. • After consultation, your Beckhoff branch will create an individual TC3 Volume Bundle for you which is tailored exactly to your licensing requirements and has its own customer-specific order number in this format: "TC12xx-0000-yyyy" (calculation of one-off creation costs). The TC3 Volume Bundle contains a precisely defined selection of Twin CAT 3 licenses for a defined Twin CAT 3 platform level. Twin CAT 3 volume licenses can be downgraded, i.e. they can also be used on IPCs with a lower performance level than the one specified in the license. • Twin CAT 3 license dongle as licensing basis: For dongle-based volume licenses, the associated dongle is the leading item. This dongle is a customer-specific item and can only be ordered by the approved customer. Examples: EL6070-yyyy (volume license with an EL6070 Ether CAT license dongle) C9900-L100-yyyy (volume license with a C9900-L100 USB license dongle) Information: The Twin CAT 3 license dongle cannot be ordered separately (individually) without a volume license. • Beckhoff IPC as a licensing basis Order the required batch size of Beckhoff IPCs using this format IPC order number + TC3 Volume Bundle. Example: CX5030 + TC12xx-0000-yyyy Information: In this case, the IPC is not included in the order number for the Twin CAT 3 volume license. 10.2.3 Activating volume licenses Twin CAT 3 volume licenses no longer have to be activated by the OEM due to the technical procedure used (volume ID in the hardware). However, the volume licenses are always tied to the relevant hardware for this volume license and can only be ordered together with this hardware. The corresponding License Response File (identical for all devices with this volume license) is stored on the target hardware ordered with the volume license (Twin CAT 3 license dongle or Beckhoff IPC) during production. You can request your Volume License Response File at any time from Beckhoff Support by specifying the order number for your volume license. Manual installation and activation of volume licenses on the control computer By default, no manual installation of the License Response File is required, as this is done by Beckhoff during production. If, for example, you are using your own image that does not yet contain this License Response File, or if it is not yet in the license directory for other reasons, manual installation may be necessary. The License Response File must be copied to the control computer in the c:\twincat\3.1\target\license directory. See also: Ordering volume licenses [} 79] 10.2.4 Twin CAT 3 volume license dongles From Twin CAT 3.1 Build 4022 or higher, any number of license dongles with standard licenses can be included in the system. Furthermore, only one license dongle with volume license is supported in the system. 80 Version: 1.20.7 Twin CAT 3

## Page 81

Special Twin CAT 3 license types 10.2.4.1 Configuring the license key terminal with volume licenses For Twin CAT 3 volume license dongles, a special, customer-specific ESI file must be used for the volume license dongle. A ZIP file with all ESI files for Twin CAT 3 volume licenses can be downloaded from the Beckhoff FTP server: https://download.beckhoff.com/download/configuration-files/io/ethercat/xml-device-description/ Beckhoff_Ether CAT_ESI_EL6070-1xxx.zip Special ESI file for Twin CAT 3 volume license terminal For a Twin CAT 3 volume license terminal you need the matching ESI file. This is not supplied with Twin CAT as standard, since a Twin CAT 3 volume license terminal is a custom product. Twin CAT 3 Version: 1.20.7 81

## Page 82

Support and Service 11 Support and Service Beckhoff and their partners around the world offer comprehensive support and service, making available fast and competent assistance with all questions related to Beckhoff products and system solutions. Download finder Our download finder contains all the files that we offer you for downloading. You will find application reports, technical documentation, technical drawings, configuration files and much more. The downloads are available in various formats. Beckhoff's branch offices and representatives Please contact your Beckhoff branch office or representative for local support and service on Beckhoff products! The addresses of Beckhoff's branch offices and representatives round the world can be found on our internet page: www.beckhoff.com You will also find further documentation for Beckhoff components there. Beckhoff Support Support offers you comprehensive technical assistance, helping you not only with the application of individual Beckhoff products, but also with other, wide-ranging services: • support • design, programming and commissioning of complex automation systems • and extensive training program for Beckhoff system components Hotline: +49 5246 963-157 e-mail: support@beckhoff.com Beckhoff Service The Beckhoff Service Center supports you in all matters of after-sales service: • on-site service • repair service • spare parts service • hotline service Hotline: +49 5246 963-460 e-mail: service@beckhoff.com Beckhoff Headquarters Beckhoff Automation Gmb H & Co. KG Huelshorstweg 20 33415 Verl Germany Phone: +49 5246 963-0 e-mail: info@beckhoff.com web: www.beckhoff.com 82 Version: 1.20.7 Twin CAT 3

## Page 83

Trademark statements Beckhoff®, ATRO®, Ether CAT®, Ether CAT G®, Ether CAT G10®, Ether CAT P®, MX-System®, Safety over Ether CAT®, TC/BSD®, Twin CAT®, Twin CAT/BSD®, Twin SAFE®, XFC®, XPlanar® and XTS® are registered and licensed trademarks of Beckhoff Automation Gmb H. Third-party trademark statements The registered trademark Linux® is used pursuant to a sublicense from the Linux Foundation, the exclusive licensee of Linus Torvalds, owner of the mark on a worldwide basis. Microsoft, Microsoft Azure, Microsoft Edge, Power Shell, Visual Studio, Windows and Xbox are trademarks of the Microsoft group of companies.

## Page 84

More Information: www.beckhoff.com/twincat3 Beckhoff Automation Gmb H & Co. KG Hülshorstweg 20 33415 Verl Germany Phone: +49 5246 9630 info@beckhoff.com www.beckhoff.com
