---
title: "Twin CAT 3 Installation 2025-08-08"
product: "TC3"
category: "Fundamentals"
tags: ["CAT", "INSTALLATION", "TWIN"]
language: "EN"
document_type: "Manual"
version: "1.13.3"
source_pdf: "https://download.beckhoff.com/download/Document/automation/twincat3/TC3_Installation_EN.pdf"
release_date: "2025-08-08"
---
Manual | EN Twin CAT 3 Installation 2025-08-08 | Version: 1.13.3

## Page 3

Table of contents Table of contents 1 Foreword.................................................................................................................................................... 5 1.1 Notes on the documentation............................................................................................................. 5 1.2 For your safety.................................................................................................................................. 5 1.3 Notes on information security............................................................................................................ 7 2 Installation Twin CAT 3.1 Build 4026........................................................................................................ 8 2.1 Initial installation of the Twin CAT Package Manager........................................................................ 8 2.1.1 Downloading and installing Twin CAT Package Manager.................................................. 8 2.1.2 Setting up the Twin CAT Package Manager....................................................................... 9 2.1.3 Integrating into Visual Studio........................................................................................... 10 2.1.4 Configuring Proxy............................................................................................................. 11 2.1.5 Prepare machine delivery................................................................................................ 12 2.2 Product installation.......................................................................................................................... 12 2.2.1 Installing Twin CAT 3.1 Build 4026................................................................................... 12 2.2.2 Installing workloads.......................................................................................................... 13 2.2.3 Upgrading workloads....................................................................................................... 14 2.2.4 Uninstalling workloads..................................................................................................... 15 2.3 Working with the command line...................................................................................................... 16 2.4 Working offline................................................................................................................................ 18 2.5 Migration to Build 4026................................................................................................................... 18 2.6 User interface Twin CAT Package Manager.................................................................................... 24 2.7 FAQ................................................................................................................................................. 26 2.8 Appendix......................................................................................................................................... 27 2.8.1 Third-party components................................................................................................... 27 3 Installation Twin CAT 3.1 Build 4024...................................................................................................... 28 3.1 Installation options.......................................................................................................................... 28 3.2 Integration in Visual Studio®............................................................................................................ 29 3.3 Installation of Twin CAT 3 Engineering and Runtime....................................................................... 31 3.3.1 Installing Twin CAT 3 Engineering and Runtime............................................................... 31 3.3.2 Installing Twin CAT 3 Engineering.................................................................................... 36 3.3.3 Installing the Twin CAT 3 Runtime.................................................................................... 43 3.4 Command line-based installation.................................................................................................... 48 3.5 Installation: Twin CAT runtime (XAR).............................................................................................. 49 3.6 Parallel installation of Twin CAT 2 and Twin CAT 3.......................................................................... 54 3.7 Uninstalling Twin CAT 3................................................................................................................... 55 3.8 FAQ................................................................................................................................................. 56 4 Installation of the Twin CAT 3 documentation...................................................................................... 57 5 Installation of the Visual Studio® help system..................................................................................... 62 6 Calling the Twin CAT 3 documentations................................................................................................ 64 7 Updating the Twin CAT 3 documentation.............................................................................................. 69 7.1 Update in Visual Studio®................................................................................................................. 69 7.2 Update in Visual Studio® 2010........................................................................................................ 71 8 Changing the language of the Twin CAT development environment................................................. 75 Twin CAT 3 Version: 1.13.3 3

## Page 4

Table of contents 9 Support and Service............................................................................................................................... 77 4 Version: 1.13.3 Twin CAT 3

## Page 5

Foreword 1 Foreword 1.1 Notes on the documentation This description is intended exclusively for trained specialists in control and automation technology who are familiar with the applicable national standards. The documentation and the following notes and explanations must be complied with when installing and commissioning the components. The trained specialists must always use the current valid documentation. The trained specialists must ensure that the application and use of the products described is in line with all safety requirements, including all relevant laws, regulations, guidelines, and standards. Disclaimer The documentation has been compiled with care. The products described are, however, constantly under development. We reserve the right to revise and change the documentation at any time and without notice. Claims to modify products that have already been supplied may not be made on the basis of the data, diagrams, and descriptions in this documentation. Trademarks Beckhoff®, ATRO® , Ether CAT®, Ether CAT G®, Ether CAT G10®, Ether CAT P®, MX-System®, Safety over Ether CAT®, TC/BSD®, Twin CAT®, Twin CAT/BSD®, Twin SAFE®, XFC®, XPlanar®, and XTS® are registered and licensed trademarks of Beckhoff Automation Gmb H. If third parties make use of the designations or trademarks contained in this publication for their own purposes, this could infringe upon the rights of the owners of the said designations. Ether CAT® is a registered trademark and patented technology, licensed by Beckhoff Automation Gmb H, Germany. Copyright © Beckhoff Automation Gmb H & Co. KG, Germany. The distribution and reproduction of this document, as well as the use and communication of its contents without express authorization, are prohibited. Offenders will be held liable for the payment of damages. All rights reserved in the event that a patent, utility model, or design are registered. Third-party trademarks Trademarks of third parties may be used in this documentation. You can find the trademark notices here: https://www.beckhoff.com/trademarks. 1.2 For your safety Safety regulations Read the following explanations for your safety. Always observe and follow product-specific safety instructions, which you may find at the appropriate places in this document. Exclusion of liability All the components are supplied in particular hardware and software configurations which are appropriate for the application. Modifications to hardware or software configurations other than those described in the documentation are not permitted, and nullify the liability of Beckhoff Automation Gmb H & Co. KG. Twin CAT 3 Version: 1.13.3 5

## Page 6

Foreword Personnel qualification This description is only intended for trained specialists in control, automation, and drive technology who are familiar with the applicable national standards. Signal words The signal words used in the documentation are classified below. In order to prevent injury and damage to persons and property, read and follow the safety and warning notices. Personal injury warnings DANGER Hazard with high risk of death or serious injury. WARNING Hazard with medium risk of death or serious injury. CAUTION There is a low-risk hazard that could result in medium or minor injury. Warning of damage to property or environment NOTICE The environment, equipment, or data may be damaged. Information on handling the product This information includes, for example: recommendations for action, assistance or further information on the product. 6 Version: 1.13.3 Twin CAT 3

## Page 7

Foreword 1.3 Notes on information security The products of Beckhoff Automation Gmb H & Co. KG (Beckhoff), insofar as they can be accessed online, are equipped with security functions that support the secure operation of plants, systems, machines and networks. Despite the security functions, the creation, implementation and constant updating of a holistic security concept for the operation are necessary to protect the respective plant, system, machine and networks against cyber threats. The products sold by Beckhoff are only part of the overall security concept. The customer is responsible for preventing unauthorized access by third parties to its equipment, systems, machines and networks. The latter should be connected to the corporate network or the Internet only if appropriate protective measures have been set up. In addition, the recommendations from Beckhoff regarding appropriate protective measures should be observed. Further information regarding information security and industrial security can be found in our https://www.beckhoff.com/secguide. Beckhoff products and solutions undergo continuous further development. This also applies to security functions. In light of this continuous further development, Beckhoff expressly recommends that the products are kept up to date at all times and that updates are installed for the products once they have been made available. Using outdated or unsupported product versions can increase the risk of cyber threats. To stay informed about information security for Beckhoff products, subscribe to the RSS feed at https:// www.beckhoff.com/secinfo. Twin CAT 3 Version: 1.13.3 7

## Page 8

Installation Twin CAT 3.1 Build 4026 2 Installation Twin CAT 3.1 Build 4026 The following installation instructions are intended for users installing Twin CAT 3.1 Build 4026. To install Twin CAT 3.1 Build 4024, read the documentation Installation Twin CAT 3.1 Build 4024 [} 28]. Twin CAT 3.1 Build 4026 is installed with the help of the Twin CAT Package Manager. With this setup, you can not only install Twin CAT in three variants as before, but also select and install additional Twin CAT components individually. You can also update and uninstall Twin CAT components individually. Installation of Build 4026 on existing 4024 systems only with migration On existing Build 4024 systems, you can only install Build 4026 by performing a migration. A guided migration is available via the Twin CAT Package Manager. If desired, you can then install engineering versions < Build 4026 (as before) as Remote Manager. Further information can be found in chapter Migration to Build 4026 [} 18]. To be able to use Twin CAT Package Manager and Twin CAT 3.1 Build 4026, you need the my Beckhoff account. The Twin CAT Package Manager is based on two components that build on each other: • Twin CAT Package Manager: The interface [} 24] for menu-driven installation (User Interface) • Twin CAT Package Manager Command Line Interface "Tc Pkg": The command line program [} 16] is used by the user interface. All actions on the interface lead to calls to the command line program. This means that all functions of the interface can be mapped in the command line, but the command line can sometimes provide more detailed functions that are not mapped in the interface. Basics The Twin CAT Package Manager downloads packages and their dependencies from one or more so-called feeds. "Stable" and "Testing" feeds are available from Beckhoff. However, customers can also provide their own feeds if these contain Twin CAT packages for offline installation, for example. The bases for this are either normal directories ("c:\packagesoffline", possibly provided via a network drive) or Nuget Package Server. Products, as displayed in the interface, contain a list of packages with versions, i.e. they have dependencies on specific package versions. These packages for representing products are called workloads, as is also common in Visual Studio. It is the task of the Twin CAT Package Manager to resolve these dependencies and fulfill them through installation. 2.1 Initial installation of the Twin CAT Package Manager The following chapter describes how to prepare the Twin CAT Package Manager so that Twin CAT 3.1 Build 4026 and individual Twin CAT components can then be installed and used. 2.1.1 Downloading and installing Twin CAT Package Manager You can download the Twin CAT Package Manager from the Download section of the Beckhoff homepage. Install the Twin CAT Package Manager as follows: ü No older version of Twin CAT is installed on the computer. 1. Download the setup file. 2. The setup file is saved in the download folder. 3. Open the setup file. 4. Accept the license agreement and click Install. 8 Version: 1.13.3 Twin CAT 3

## Page 9

Installation Twin CAT 3.1 Build 4026 ð The Twin CAT Package Manager is installed. 5. Close the installation window. ð The Twin CAT Package Manager has been installed. 2.1.2 Setting up the Twin CAT Package Manager Creating a new feed To access the Twin CAT installation options, you must first create your own feed. The Startup configuration guides you through setting up the feed the first time you use it. 1. Open the Twin CAT Package Manager. 2. Fill in the fields Feed name and Feed URL. Feed name can be used freely. The Feed URL is https://public.tcpkg.beckhoff-cloud.com/api/v1/feeds/ Stable. To access beta versions, https://public.tcpkg.beckhoff-cloud.com/api/v1/feeds/Testing can also be activated. 3. Enter your my Beckhoff login data in the fields User name and Password. Twin CAT 3 Version: 1.13.3 9

## Page 10

Installation Twin CAT 3.1 Build 4026 ð Your login will be checked. If you have problems logging in, you can check your login details at www.beckhoff.com. Information: New conditions must be accepted for error code 451. Log in to www.beckhoff.com. 4. Click Next. 5. Choose a suitable Visual Studio version or shell for the integration of Visual Studio 6. Click Finish. ð A new feed is created. ð The Twin CAT Package Manager reloads the information after a feed change. This may take a moment. You can already exit the settings page by clicking x. Setting the language By default, the Twin CAT Package Manager is set to English. 1. You can change the language in the drop-down field next to the button. 2. Confirm the message that the page is being reloaded with OK. ð The page is loaded in the selected language. 2.1.3 Integrating into Visual Studio With Twin CAT 3.1 Build 4026, you can also configure the integration in different Visual Studio versions and XAE Shell versions at a later date without reinstallation. To do this, set the desired version in the options. 10 Version: 1.13.3 Twin CAT 3

## Page 11

Installation Twin CAT 3.1 Build 4026 Changing the version of Visual Studio used 1. Use the gear to open the settings. The Visual Studio integrations are part of the options in the lower area. 2. Change the selected Visual Studio version. ð For Visual Studio versions, existing variants are displayed here, depending on the system configuration. 3. For the XAE Shell (32bit Shell based on Visual Studio 2017) and XAE Shell64 (64bit Shell based on Visual Studio 2022), configure the integration using the checkbox. 4. Click on the floppy disk to save your settings. ð A progress window opens and updates the integrations. The XAE Shell or XAE Shell64 is automatically installed or uninstalled and the selected integrations are made or removed. 5. Click OK to close the progress window when the change is complete. 2.1.4 Configuring Proxy If the computer does not have a direct connection to the Internet, you can use a proxy. The Twin CAT Package Manager attempts to read this information from the operating system. However, as there are many ways in which this can be stored, it can also be configured manually. 1. Open a command line with administrator rights. 2. Set the proxy via the Tc Pkg command line: tcpkg config set proxy -d <ipadress:port> -u <user> 3. Enter the password when you are prompted to do so. Further options are available via Help: tcpkg config set proxy -h If you do not have information about a proxy available, you can download the packages from another system and transfer them manually to this system. The exact procedure is documented in the chapter Working offline [} 18]. Twin CAT 3 Version: 1.13.3 11

## Page 12

Installation Twin CAT 3.1 Build 4026 2.1.5 Prepare machine delivery To ensure that you do not pass on your Beckhoff customer data to your customers when the machine is delivered, please delete the feed entries that you have created. Proceed as follows: 1. Open the Twin CAT Package Manager settings via the gear button. 2. Select the feed you have created. 3. Click on the recycle bin to delete your my Beckhoff login data. 4. Click on the disk to save. ð The feed is deleted. 2.2 Product installation All Twin CAT products are installed with the help of the Twin CAT Package Manager. This applies to Twin CAT 3.1 Build 4026 as well as to engineering products and functions, for example. The following chapter describes how Twin CAT products are installed, updated and uninstalled. 2.2.1 Installing Twin CAT 3.1 Build 4026 The first step is to install Twin CAT 3.1 Build 4026. We recommend installing the Twin CAT Standard workload for this purpose. This workload contains everything you need to use Twin CAT: PLC, Motion NC PTP, System Configuration, Safety Configuration. You can then install additional Twin CAT components individually. 12 Version: 1.13.3 Twin CAT 3

## Page 13

Installation Twin CAT 3.1 Build 4026 1. Select the Twin CAT Standard workload in the choice area of the window. 2. If necessary, adjust the version of the workload. 3. Click on Install. ð The installation process starts. ð Twin CAT 3.1.4026 is installed in the selected version. ð If an error occurs during installation, this will be displayed in the progress window. 4. When the installation is complete, close the progress window with Close. ð Twin CAT 3.1 Build 4026 has been installed on your system. 2.2.2 Installing workloads The individual Twin CAT components are divided into workloads. You can choose which workloads you need and install them in the same way as Twin CAT standard. 1. Select the desired workload in the selection area of the window. Twin CAT 3 Version: 1.13.3 13

## Page 14

Installation Twin CAT 3.1 Build 4026 ð "Install" is displayed in the top right-hand corner of the window. 2. Adjust the version if necessary. 3. Click on Install. ð The installation process starts. ð If an error occurs during installation, this will be displayed in the progress window. 4. When the installation is complete, close the progress window with Close. ð The desired workload has been installed on your system. 2.2.3 Upgrading workloads Installed workloads can be updated individually in the Twin CAT Package Manager. 1. Open the Installed tab. 2. Select the desired workload in the selection area of the window. 3. Click on the workload again so that "Upgrade" appears in the top right-hand corner of the window. 14 Version: 1.13.3 Twin CAT 3

## Page 15

Installation Twin CAT 3.1 Build 4026 ð An arrow icon is then displayed in front of the selected workload. 4. You can use X to remove workloads that should not be updated from the right-hand window area 5. Click on Upgrade. ð The update process starts. 6. Close the progress window with Close when the process is complete. ð The workload has been updated on your system. 2.2.4 Uninstalling workloads Installed workloads can be uninstalled individually in the Twin CAT Package Manager. 1. Open the Installed tab. 2. Select the desired workload in the selection area of the window. 3. Click on the workload again until you see "Uninstall" in the top right-hand corner of the window. Twin CAT 3 Version: 1.13.3 15

## Page 16

Installation Twin CAT 3.1 Build 4026 ð A recycle bin icon is then displayed in front of the selected workload 4. You can use X to remove workloads that are not to be uninstalled from the right-hand window area, 5. Click on Uninstall. ð The workload is uninstalled. 6. Close the progress window with Close when the process is complete. ð The workload has been uninstalled from your system. 2.3 Working with the command line The command line program "tcpkg" enables the management of Twin CAT components (workloads) or individual packages. • The Twin CAT Package Manager must be installed. The "tcpkg" command is then available on the system. • The command line program "tcpkg" can be executed in a Powershell or a classic command line. Administration rights are required for most actions. • The command integrates a help system. With "tcpkg -h" the top-level help can be called up; with "tcpkg list -h", for example, detailed help for the "list" command can be called up. • Visual Studio/XAE Shell may need to be closed for the installation. Commands for the command line This list is a choice to give an overview of the most important commands. Queries • List of all available packages incl. workloads tcpkg list • List of all versions of all available packages tcpkg list -a [Name Of Package] • List of all available workloads tcpkg list -t workload • List of all configured feeds tcpkg source list 16 Version: 1.13.3 Twin CAT 3

## Page 17

Installation Twin CAT 3.1 Build 4026 • List of all available packages from a specific feed tcpkg list -n [Name Of Source] • List of all installed packages tcpkg list -i • List of all installed packages that can be upgraded tcpkg list -o • Display information about a package tcpkg show [Name Of Package] • List of the dependencies of a package tcpkg resolve [Name Of Package] Working with packages: Installing, upgrading, and uninstalling • Installing a package or workload with dependencies tcpkg install [Name Of Package] • Installing a package or workload in a given version tcpkg install [Name Of Package]=[Version Of Package] Example: tcpkg install Twin CAT. XAE. PLC=3.6.16 • Installing a Visual Studio integration package (after the configuration has been changed, see below) tcpkg install [vs2017.ext|vs2019.ext|vs2022.ext|tcxaeshell.ext| tcxaeshell64.ext] • Upgrade a package tcpkg upgrade [Name Of Package] • Upgrade all installed packages tcpkg upgrade all • Uninstalling a package tcpkg uninstall [Name Of Package] • Uninstalling a package with dependencies tcpkg uninstall [Name Of Package] --include-dependencies Configuration • Add a feed tcpkg source add -n=[Name Of Source] -s=[Link To Source] -- priority=[Unique Value, highest is 1] -u=[User Name] [--password-stdin] Information: Links To Source for normal cases: https://public.tcpkg.beckhoff-cloud.com/api/v1/feeds/ [testing/stable] User Name for Beckhoff feeds: my Beckhoff account email address Password is requested interactively, but can also be read (from Tc Pkg CLI 2.1.96) by STDIN using -password-stdin (Powershell example: Get-Content pwd.txt | tcpkg source add … -- password-stdin) • Changing a feed tcpkg source edit [Name Of Source] --priority=[New Unique Value] • Switching a feed on or off without deleting it tcpkg source edit [Name Of Source] --enabled true / false • Setting the Visual Studio integrations: tcpkg config set -n [use VS2017|use VS2019|use VS2022|use Tc Xae Shell| use Tc Xae Shell64] Information: After a change, the corresponding integration must be executed: For example: tcpkg install vs2022.ext • Removing the Visual Studio integrations tcpkg config unset -n [use VS2017|use VS2019|use VS2022|use Tc Xae Shell| use Tc Xae Shell64] Information: The corresponding integration must be executed after a change: For example: tcpkg uninstall vs2022.ext Twin CAT 3 Version: 1.13.3 17

## Page 18

Installation Twin CAT 3.1 Build 4026 2.4 Working offline If you want to set up a system that does not have direct access to the Internet ("offline system"), you can download the packages from another system and store them locally. These stored packages can then be transferred to the offline system and installed there. You will find the necessary procedure below: ü You need a system with access to the feeds. ü The Twin CAT Package Manager is installed there and a feed is configured. 1. Create a local folder in which you want to save the packages. For example c:\packagesoffline 2. Open a command line or alternatively Windows Power Shell with administrator rights. 3. You can use this command to call up a list of available products: tcpkg list -t workload 4. You can use this command to download the workload (Twin CAT Standard in this sample) with all dependencies: tcpkg download Twin CAT. Standard. XAE -o "C:\packagesoffline" 5. If the product has an XAR component, please also download this workload if necessary tcpkg download Twin CAT. Standard. XAR -o "C:\packagesoffline" 6. Transfer the directory c:\packagesoffline and the setup of the Twin CAT System Manager to the other offline system. Proceed as follows on the offline system: 7. Install the Twin CAT Package Manager as usual. 8. Start the Twin CAT Package Manager. 9. Create a new feed and enter the path to the local folder (e.g. c:\packagesoffline) as the Feed URL. Username and password remain empty. ð The provided workloads are then available. They can be displayed in the user interface or via the command line tcpkg list -t workload. ð The workloads can be installed as usual via the user interface or the command line. 2.5 Migration to Build 4026 Since Twin CAT 3.1 Build 4024 is installed via Setup and Build 4026 via Twin CAT Package Manager, the installation of Build 4026 on existing Build 4024 systems is only possible via migration. A system on which Build 4024 is installed and which is to be migrated to Build 4026 can be an engineering system and/or runtime system. A guided migration is available via the Twin CAT Package Manager. If desired, you can then install engineering versions < Build 4026 (as before) as Remote Manager. The Remote Manager Workloads are available in the Package Manager. 18 Version: 1.13.3 Twin CAT 3

## Page 19

Installation Twin CAT 3.1 Build 4026 Summary The execution of the migration tool includes the following steps: 1. All installed Build 4024 components are identified. 2. The system is cleaned by uninstalling all Build 4024 components. 3. Build 4026 is installed. On the one hand, the actual Twin CAT Engineering or runtime version of Build 4026 is installed. On the other hand, all components/functions that were previously installed on the 4024 system are installed for version 4026, provided the component is available under Build 4026. Step-by-step instructions 1. Download the Beckhoff Twin CAT Package Manager from the Beckhoff homepage. 2. Execute Twin CAT-Package-Manager-Setup.exe by double-clicking on the file. 3. Follow the instructions for installing the Package Manager. 4. Open the Package Manager. 5. Add the Stable Feed and enter your my Beckhoff login data. https://public.tcpkg.beckhoff-cloud.com/api/v1/feeds/Stable 6. Select a suitable Visual Studio version or shell for the integration of Visual Studio. 7. Click Next. ð A message appears stating that an older version of Twin CAT has been detected on the system and that the migration tool must be installed in order to continue. Twin CAT 3 Version: 1.13.3 19

## Page 20

Installation Twin CAT 3.1 Build 4026 8. Confirm with Yes. ð The installation of the migration tool is started and an output window appears. ð If the message Package(s) installed: Twin CAT. XAE. Migrate Cli appears in the window and the status at the bottom left changes to Finished, the installation has been completed. 20 Version: 1.13.3 Twin CAT 3

## Page 21

Installation Twin CAT 3.1 Build 4026 9. Close the window with OK. ð Next, the migration process is simulated. 10. To do this, confirm the message with OK. Twin CAT 3 Version: 1.13.3 21

## Page 22

Installation Twin CAT 3.1 Build 4026 ð All old Twin CAT setups found on the system and the corresponding Twin CAT Package Manager versions to be migrated to are listed. 11. To start the migration, click Next. 12. Confirm the query as to whether you want to start the migration with Yes. ð An output window appears in which the migration can be tracked. After a short time, the migration requires a system restart. 13. Confirm with Ok to restart the computer. ð After the restart, the Twin CAT Package Manager will automatically open again and continue with the migration. ð When the migration is complete, this appears in the output and the installed products are displayed. 22 Version: 1.13.3 Twin CAT 3

## Page 23

Installation Twin CAT 3.1 Build 4026 14. End the migration with Close. 15. If you have any questions about the process, please provide the log files of the following folder: C:\Program Data\Beckhoff\Tc Migrate Cmd ð The migration to Twin CAT 3.1 Build 4026 has been completed. Twin CAT 3 Version: 1.13.3 23

## Page 24

Installation Twin CAT 3.1 Build 4026 2.6 User interface Twin CAT Package Manager Structure of the main window of the Twin CAT Package Manager 24 Version: 1.13.3 Twin CAT 3

## Page 25

Installation Twin CAT 3.1 Build 4026 en / de Change language. Reload information from the configured feeds and local information. Open the Twin CAT Package Manager settings. Installed / Available The Installed tab shows the installed products. The Available tab shows products that are ready for installation. Search Filters the list of products. Engineering / Runtime / Engineering + Runtime This drop-down list allows you to choose whether products with an engineering or runtime component can be selected or a combination of both. Feed choice / All Selection area, whether products from only one feed or all ("All") should be displayed. Switch between line and tile view. Import system config Import product configuration from a file and install accordingly. Export system config Export current product configuration to a file. Display area left Products are displayed and can be chosen for installation, uninstallation and upgrading. Display area right List of changes to be made to installations as well as uninstallations or upgrades / downgrades. Modify Execute the displayed changes. Structure of the Twin CAT Package Manager settings window Twin CAT 3 Version: 1.13.3 25

## Page 26

Installation Twin CAT 3.1 Build 4026 close Close settings. Feeds Display of the configured feeds Save. Note: New conditions must be accepted for error code 451. Please log in at www.beckhoff.com. Discard changes. Add a new feed. Delete feed. Options Various options can be set here, including the Visual Studio installations, which can also be changed here later, and the customization of the destination directory before the first installation. 2.7 FAQ Error code 451 when accessing my Beckhoff (create feed / fetch packages) New conditions must be accepted for error code 451. Please log in at www.beckhoff.com. Visual Studio mapping at package level Packages that represent a Visual Studio or XAE Shell integration have one corresponding package per supported Visual Studio variant. Depending on the configuration, this is used automatically and transparently by the Twin CAT Package Manager to execute the corresponding integration. As they are handled transparently, these packages are not normally displayed separately, but appear, for example, as separate files on the file system. For example, the following Visual Studio integration packages also exist for the "Twin CAT. XAE. System Manager VS" component: Twin CAT. XAE. System Manager VS Twin CAT. XAE. System Manager VS. Tc Xae Shell64 Twin CAT. XAE. System Manager VS. Tc Xae Shell Twin CAT. XAE. System Manager VS. VS2017 Twin CAT. XAE. System Manager VS. VS2019 Twin CAT. XAE. System Manager VS. VS2022 "Changes to device" message from Powershell in connection with UAC Depending on the user account control (UAC) set in Windows, Microsoft Powershell issues prompts for changes to the device while the Twin CAT Package Manager is being used: 26 Version: 1.13.3 Twin CAT 3

## Page 27

Installation Twin CAT 3.1 Build 4026 These prompts result from the technical implementation of the Twin CAT Package Manager. Only the required write accesses such as configuration changes or the installations themselves are executed under administrator rights. 2.8 Appendix 2.8.1 Third-party components This software contains third-party components. Please refer to the license file provided in the following folder for further information: C:\Program Files(x86)\Beckhoff\Legal\<Tc Pkg> Twin CAT 3 Version: 1.13.3 27

## Page 28

Installation Twin CAT 3.1 Build 4024 3 Installation Twin CAT 3.1 Build 4024 The following installation instructions are intended for users installing Twin CAT 3.1 Build 4024. To install Twin CAT 3.1 Build 4026, read the documentation Installation Twin CAT 3.1 Build 4026 [} 8]. 3.1 Installation options Twin CAT 3 is delivered with a component-based setup that you can download from the Download section on the Beckhoff homepage. Twin CAT 3 is installed by default in the directory C:\Twin CAT\3.x (x = Twin CAT-version number). Changing the installation path is not recommended. The following setups are available for each new version of Twin CAT 3.1: • Twin CAT 3.1 e Xtended Automation Engineering (XAE) (full installation) • Twin CAT 3.1 e Xtended Automation Runtime (XAR) • Twin CAT 3.1 Engineering Remote Manager • Twin CAT 3.1 ADS Full installation - Twin CAT 3.1 e Xtended Automation Engineering (XAE) The full installation of Twin CAT 3.1 contains various installation options that you can select during the installation: • Full installation - Twin CAT 3.1 Engineering and Runtime (Complete option) • Full installation - Twin CAT 3.1 Engineering (Custom option) • Full installation - Twin CAT 3.1 Runtime (Custom option) Installation option Scope Use Full installation - Installs the complete Twin CAT system • First installation Twin CAT 3 on a single PC: • On development workstations that use Engineering and • Twin CAT 3 Engineering (XAE, the PC at the same time as a control Runtime development system/environment) computer. (Standard • local Twin CAT 3 Runtime (real-time • No external test system required: you installation) runtime system/environment, XAR) can also use the development system as a test system. Additional control hardware for tests is not absolutely necessary. Twin CAT 3 Installs the Twin CAT 3 Engineering for • If the control computer is always strictly Engineering full the development computer separated from the development installation system. • External test system required: you CANNOT use the development computer as a test system for the control program. Full installation - Installs the Twin CAT 3 Runtime for the • For pure control computers without a Twin CAT 3 Runtime control computer development system The Twin CAT 3 Runtime (XAR) is already pre-installed on many Beckhoff IPCs or can be ordered as an option. See also: • Integration in Visual Studio® [} 29] • Installation of Twin CAT 3 Engineering and Runtime [} 31] 28 Version: 1.13.3 Twin CAT 3

## Page 29

Installation Twin CAT 3.1 Build 4024 Installation of the Twin CAT 3 e Xtended Automation Runtime (XAR) This installation contains only the components that are needed for the Twin CAT 3 Runtime. The setup is thus much smaller than that for the full installation of Twin CAT 3. Typical application for the setup: • New installation or update of the Twin CAT 3 Runtime system on a target system. Installation of the Twin CAT 3 Engineering Remote Manager This installation contains only the engineering components of a Twin CAT 3 version and cannot be installed stand-alone. It always requires a newer full version of Twin CAT 3.1. Typical application for the setup: • Use of older Twin CAT 3 Engineering versions without several Twin CAT 3 versions being completely installed alongside one another. Following the installation, a Twin CAT 3 Engineering version is then available in the Remote Manager and can be selected before loading a project. This installer is thus always only provided for downloading with the subsequent Twin CAT version. Installation of Twin CAT 3 ADS This installation contains only the components necessary for the use of ADS. ADS (Twin CAT Automation Device Specification) is a medium-independent protocol for communication with/between Twin CAT components. ADS is normally installed automatically together with Twin CAT 3 XAE or Twin CAT 3 XAR. Typical application for the setup: • A separate HMI system (with no control function of its own) that exchanges its process data with a Twin CAT-based control computer via ADS. See also: • Command line-based installation [} 48] • Parallel installation of Twin CAT 2 and Twin CAT 3 [} 54] 3.2 Integration in Visual Studio® Twin CAT 3.1 is integrated into Visual Studio® during installation. Requirements for integration in Visual Studio® • Full version of Visual Studio® 2013-2019 or • Visual Studio® Shell 2013-2019 but • no Visual Studio® Express Installation order To integrate Twin CAT 3 into Visual Studio®, you need install Visual Studio® first, and then install Twin CAT 3 and integrate it into Visual Studio®. If you subsequently decide to install another Visual Studio®, you must install Twin CAT 3 again as the Repair/ Modify version. Example: After installing Twin CAT 3, you decide to program in C++ and therefore want to install a full version of Visual Studio®. Standard installation cases Case 1: You do not have a full version of Visual Studio® installed on the development computer. Twin CAT 3 Version: 1.13.3 29

## Page 30

Installation Twin CAT 3.1 Build 4024 In this case, a Visual Studio® 2017 Shell supplied by Twin CAT 3 is installed as the standard development environment for Twin CAT. Case 2: One or more full version(s) of Visual Studio® 2013-2019 is installed on the development computer. The Twin CAT 3 setup offers you the possibility to select in which full version of Visual Studio® Twin CAT 3 should be integrated (multiple selection possible). Case 3: A Visual Studio® 2013-2019 Shell is installed on the development computer. The Twin CAT 3 setup offers you the possibility to integrate Twin CAT 3 into the already installed Visual Studio® Shell (instead of installing the default Visual Studio® 2019 Shell) See also: Installation of Twin CAT 3 Engineering and Runtime [} 31] Download and installation of the Visual Studio® Shell With the exception of the Visual Studio® 2019 Shell included in the installer, Beckhoff does not deliver any other Visual Studio® Shell versions together with Twin CAT 3. However, you can download and install them free of charge from the Microsoft website. Visual Studio® Shells are free of charge, but they do not allow high-level language programming such as C++ or C#. Installation requirements: Windows 10 Go to http://www.microsoft.com/download in your browser. • Search for "Visual Studio 201x Shell (Isolated) Redistributable Package", download and install it. • Search for "Visual Studio 201x Shell (Integrated) Redistributable Package", download and install it. Visual Studio® 201x Shell (Integrated) Redistributable Package is an add-on to Visual Studio® 201x Shell (Isolated) Redistributable Package, therefore the "Isolated" version must be installed first. For details visit the Microsoft website. Use of Twin CAT C++ If you want to use Twin CAT C++, it is mandatory to install the option "Microsoft Foundation Classes for C++" during the full installation of Visual Studio®. Otherwise the SDK is missing and Twin CAT C++ is not available even with a full Visual Studio®. Language settings The language used in Twin CAT depends on the language of the pre-installed Visual Studio® version. If Twin CAT 3 is to be displayed in German, Visual Studio® (Shell) must also be installed and selected in German. You can install the language packs of Visual Studio® afterwards after installing Twin CAT 3. In the settings of Visual Studio® you can then switch the language. 30 Version: 1.13.3 Twin CAT 3

## Page 31

Installation Twin CAT 3.1 Build 4024 3.3 Installation of Twin CAT 3 Engineering and Runtime The following sections describe how to install all Twin CAT 3 components on one system (full installation). During the installation you can choose whether you want to install the entire Twin CAT 3 system (Engineering and Runtime), only the Twin CAT 3 Engineering or only the Twin CAT 3 Runtime. Twin CAT is integrated into Visual Studio® during installation. See also Integration in Visual Studio® [} 29]. 3.3.1 Installing Twin CAT 3 Engineering and Runtime ü You have read the section Integration in Visual Studio® [} 29]. ü You have downloaded the current installation program TC31-Full-Setup 3.1 from the Beckhoff homepage. 1. Run the program to start the installation. Twin CAT 3 Version: 1.13.3 31

## Page 32

Installation Twin CAT 3.1 Build 4024 ð The Twin CAT 3.1 - Install Shield Wizard will open, which guides you through the installation and in which you make all further installation settings (licence agreement, customer information, setup type). 2. Click on Next to proceed with the installation. 32 Version: 1.13.3 Twin CAT 3

## Page 33

Installation Twin CAT 3.1 Build 4024 3. Accept the license agreement and click on Next. 4. Enter your User Name and Organization. Click on Next. Twin CAT 3 Version: 1.13.3 33

## Page 34

Installation Twin CAT 3.1 Build 4024 1. Activate the Complete option to install the complete Twin CAT system. Click on Next. 2. If you have already installed Visual Studio® 2013/2015/2017/2019 (or a Visual Studio® Shell 2013-2019), activate the Integrate Twin CAT selection boxes for the versions in which you wish to install Twin CAT 3. 3. If you also want to (re-)activate the Twin CAT XAE settings, activate the associated Activate TC Settings selection boxes. 4. If you have not yet installed any Visual Studio® version, activate the Install Twin CAT XAE Shell selection box in order to install the Visual Studio® Shell as the environment. Click on Next. 34 Version: 1.13.3 Twin CAT 3

## Page 35

Installation Twin CAT 3.1 Build 4024 1. Click on Install to start the installation. Twin CAT 3 will be installed in the specified directory C: \Twin CAT\3.1\. 2. Activate the Always trust software from Beckhoff Automation Gmb H selection box and click on Install to install all drivers (alternatively you will be requested several times to confirm). Twin CAT 3 Version: 1.13.3 35

## Page 36

Installation Twin CAT 3.1 Build 4024 3. Click on Finish. 4. To complete the installation, you have to restart the system. If you wish to automatically restart the system immediately, click on Yes in the following dialog. ð Following the restart Twin CAT is ready for use. The status of the runtime system (XAR) is indicated by a blue (configuration mode) or green (run mode) symbol in the Windows menu bar. 3.3.2 Installing Twin CAT 3 Engineering ü You have read the section Integration in Visual Studio® [} 29]. ü You have downloaded the current installation program TC31-Full-Setup 3.1 from the Beckhoff homepage. 1. Run the program to start the installation. 36 Version: 1.13.3 Twin CAT 3

## Page 37

Installation Twin CAT 3.1 Build 4024 ð The Twin CAT 3.1 - Install Shield Wizard will open, which guides you through the installation and in which you make all further installation settings (licence agreement, customer information, setup type). 2. Click on Next to proceed with the installation. Twin CAT 3 Version: 1.13.3 37

## Page 38

Installation Twin CAT 3.1 Build 4024 3. Accept the license agreement and click on Next. 4. Enter your User Name and Organization. Click on Next. 38 Version: 1.13.3 Twin CAT 3

## Page 39

Installation Twin CAT 3.1 Build 4024 1. Activate the Custom option to install just the Twin CAT 3 Engineering. Click on Next. Twin CAT 3 Version: 1.13.3 39

## Page 40

Installation Twin CAT 3.1 Build 4024 2. Deselect Twin CAT XAR and the subordinate features by clicking on the symbol in front of the respective entry and selecting This feature will not be available in the opening context menu. Click on Next. 3. If you have already installed Visual Studio® 2013/2015/2017/2019 (or a Visual Studio® Shell 2013-2019), activate the Integrate Twin CAT selection boxes for the versions in which you wish to install Twin CAT 3. 4. If you also want to (re-)activate the Twin CAT XAE settings, activate the associated Activate TC Settings selection boxes. 40 Version: 1.13.3 Twin CAT 3

## Page 41

Installation Twin CAT 3.1 Build 4024 5. If you have not yet installed any Visual Studio® version, activate the Install Twin CAT XEA Shell selection box in order to install the Visual Studio® Shell as the environment. Click on Next. 1. Click on Install to start the installation. Twin CAT 3 will be installed in the specified directory C: \Twin CAT\3.1\. Twin CAT 3 Version: 1.13.3 41

## Page 42

Installation Twin CAT 3.1 Build 4024 2. Activate the Always trust software from Beckhoff Automation Gmb H selection box and click on Install to install all drivers (alternatively you will be requested several times to confirm). 3. Click on Finish. 4. To complete the installation, you have to restart the system. If you wish to automatically restart the system immediately, click on Yes in the following dialog. 42 Version: 1.13.3 Twin CAT 3

## Page 43

Installation Twin CAT 3.1 Build 4024 ð Following the restart Twin CAT is ready for use. The status of the runtime system (XAR) is indicated by a blue (configuration mode) or green (run mode) symbol in the Windows menu bar. 3.3.3 Installing the Twin CAT 3 Runtime ü You have read the section Integration in Visual Studio® [} 29]. ü You have downloaded the current installation program TC31-Full-Setup 3.1 from the Beckhoff homepage. 1. Run the program to start the installation. ð The Twin CAT 3.1 - Install Shield Wizard will open, which guides you through the installation and in which you make all further installation settings (licence agreement, customer information, setup type). Twin CAT 3 Version: 1.13.3 43

## Page 44

Installation Twin CAT 3.1 Build 4024 2. Click on Next to proceed with the installation. 3. Accept the license agreement and click on Next. 44 Version: 1.13.3 Twin CAT 3

## Page 45

Installation Twin CAT 3.1 Build 4024 4. Enter your User Name and Organization. Click on Next. 1. Activate the Custom option to install just the Twin CAT 3 Runtime. Click on Next. 2. Deselect Twin CAT XAE and the subordinate features by clicking on the symbol in front of the respective entry and selection This feature will not be available in the opening context menu. You can choose which of the runtime environments you wish to install: Twin CAT 3 PLC, Twin CAT 3 C++ or Twin CAT 3 MC. If you deselect a runtime environment you cannot operate the corresponding module on the Twin CAT 3 Version: 1.13.3 45

## Page 46

Installation Twin CAT 3.1 Build 4024 computer. Click on Next. 46 Version: 1.13.3 Twin CAT 3

## Page 47

Installation Twin CAT 3.1 Build 4024 1. Click on Install to start the installation. Twin CAT 3 will be installed in the specified directory C: \Twin CAT\3.1\. 2. Activate the Always trust software from Beckhoff Automation Gmb H selection box and click on Install to install all drivers (alternatively you will be requested several times to confirm). Twin CAT 3 Version: 1.13.3 47

## Page 48

Installation Twin CAT 3.1 Build 4024 3. Click on Finish. 4. To complete the installation, you have to restart the system. If you wish to automatically restart the system immediately, click on Yes in the following dialog. ð Following the restart Twin CAT is ready for use. The status of the runtime system (XAR) is indicated by a blue (configuration mode) or green (run mode) symbol in the Windows menu bar. 3.4 Command line-based installation In general, Twin CAT 3.1 can only be installed "unattended", but not "silently". This means that you can install Twin CAT by script or command line command, but windows will be opened and closed automatically despite that. The installation therefore doesn't proceed "silently". Command line command for the installation The complete command line command to install Twin CAT 3.1 is: TC31-Full-Setup.exe /s /v"/qr ALLUSERS=1" 48 Version: 1.13.3 Twin CAT 3

## Page 49

Installation Twin CAT 3.1 Build 4024 Activation of the Twin CAT XAE Settings Depending on the installed Visual Studio® version you can activate the Twin CAT settings for a corresponding Visual Studio® version with the following additions (corresponds to an activated check box in the Twin CAT 3.1 – Install Shield Wizard): ACTIVATEVS2013SETTINGS=1 , if VS2013 is installed ACTIVATEVS2015SETTINGS=1 , if VS2015 is installed ACTIVATEVS2017SETTINGS=1 , if VS2017 is installed ACTIVATEVS2019SETTINGS=1 , if VS2019 is installed If there is no Visual Studio® (Shell) installed on the system, do not call ACTIVATEVS201x SETTINGS, the Visual Studio® 2013 Shell and all settings will be installed automatically in this case. Example for Visual Studio® 2015: TC31-Full-Setup.exe /s /v"/qr ALLUSERS=1 ACTIVATEVS2015SETTINGS=1" To activate the settings, Visual Studio® 2015 is automatically started with the corresponding call and also closed again. Suppression of the automatic reboot The automatic reboot can be suppressed with the following addition. REBOOT=Really Suppress Sample: TC31-Full-Setup.exe /s /v"/qr REBOOT=Really Suppress ALLUSERS=1 ACTIVATEVS2015SETTINGS=1" See also: • Integration in Visual Studio® [} 29] • Installation of Twin CAT 3 Engineering and Runtime [} 31] 3.5 Installation: Twin CAT runtime (XAR) Requirements for flawless real-time behavior For optimal, reliable and high-performance real-time behavior, a complete system (hardware, BIOS, operating system, driver software, real-time control software) is absolutely essential. Each individual component of the control system must be checked and optimized for this application in order to achieve optimal, reliable and high-performance real-time behavior. Beckhoff Industrial PCs are optimized in detail for this purpose. When using the Twin CAT Runtime (XAR) on PCs from third- party providers, flawless real-time behavior cannot be guaranteed. Twin CAT XAR is the Twin CAT 3 real-time runtime environment. To install the Twin CAT XAR runtime environment, carry out the following steps: 1. Download the installation program for Twin CAT 3 (XAR) from the Beckhoff website. 2. To install Twin CAT 3, start the Twin CAT 3 setup by right-clicking on the setup file. Twin CAT 3 Version: 1.13.3 49

## Page 50

Installation Twin CAT 3.1 Build 4024 3. Accept the license terms and click Next. 50 Version: 1.13.3 Twin CAT 3

## Page 51

Installation Twin CAT 3.1 Build 4024 4. Enter your user name and your company. Click Next. 5. Select Custom as the setup type and click Next. Twin CAT 3 Version: 1.13.3 51

## Page 52

Installation Twin CAT 3.1 Build 4024 6. Select the Twin CAT 3 and Twin CAT XAR features. You can also select which of the runtime environments you want to install: Twin CAT 3 PLC, Twin CAT 3 C++ or Twin CAT 3 MC. Click Next. Deselection of a runtime environment If you deselect one of these runtime environments, you will not be able to run the corresponding module on this computer. 7. Click on Install to start the installation. 52 Version: 1.13.3 Twin CAT 3

## Page 53

Installation Twin CAT 3.1 Build 4024 8. Agree to the installation of the Beckhoff software on your system by clicking on Install. ð When the installation is complete, the system must be restarted. 9. Click Finish. 10. Answer the following question with Yes to restart the system automatically. ð After the restart Twin CAT is ready for use. Twin CAT 3 Version: 1.13.3 53

## Page 54

Installation Twin CAT 3.1 Build 4024 ð The status of the runtime system (XAR) is indicated by a blue (configuration mode) or green (run mode) system tray icon: Missing Twin CAT runtime icon If the icon is not displayed after the restart, it may be in the "Hidden Icons" area. You can reach it by clicking on the small up arrow. 3.6 Parallel installation of Twin CAT 2 and Twin CAT 3 You can install Twin CAT 3 and Twin CAT 2 on the same computer. Installation cases Case 1: Twin CAT 3 is to be installed on a computer on which Twin CAT 2 is already installed. When installing Twin CAT 3, an existing Twin CAT 2 system will be detected and deactivated for the running installation. Following the installation Twin CAT 3 is then activated (see also: Switching between Twin CAT 2 and Twin CAT 3). Case 2: Twin CAT 2 is to be installed or updated on a computer on which Twin CAT 3 is already installed. Prior to the installation or updating of Twin CAT 2, the active Twin CAT 3 version must be deactivated or you must switch to an installed Twin CAT 2 version (see Switching between Twin CAT 2 and Twin CAT 3). Only then may the Twin CAT 2 installation be started. If the Twin CAT 2 installation is executed without deactivating Twin CAT 3 first, the Twin CAT 3 installation will be rendered unusable and will have to be executed again afterwards. Switching between Twin CAT 2 and Twin CAT 3 In general, only one Twin CAT Runtime System (XAR) may ever be active at any one time. With the help of the Tc Switch Runtime program, however, you can switch between the two installations at any time and activate and deactivate Twin CAT 2 and Twin CAT 3. To open the Tc Switch Runtime program, right-click on the Twin CAT icon in the Windows menu bar and select Twin CAT Switch Runtime from the menu which then opens. 54 Version: 1.13.3 Twin CAT 3

## Page 55

Installation Twin CAT 3.1 Build 4024 After switching from Twin CAT 3 to Twin CAT 2 using “Twin CAT Switch Runtime” you need to manually open Twin CAT Switch Runtime from “C:\Twin CAT\Tc Switch Runtime\Tc Switch Runtime.exe” in order to switch back from Twin CAT 2 to Twin CAT 3. 3.7 Uninstalling Twin CAT 3 Uninstall order The Twin CAT 3 installation is modular and consists of a series of component-based setups that are executed one after the other during the installation. If you want to remove Twin CAT 3 completely from a computer, the following procedure is recommended. ü Windows Control Panel > Programs and Features is open. 1. Uninstall all Twin CAT 3 functions. This step should be done before uninstalling Twin CAT, because some functions unregister with Twin CAT during uninstallation. If Twin CAT is no longer available, the uninstallation aborts with an error message. 2. Uninstall all Twin CAT component setups (e.g. Twin CAT Scope, Twin CAT Target Browser, Twin CAT Block Diagram). 3. Uninstall Twin CAT. Uninstallation of the Visual Studio® Shell A Microsoft Visual Studio® 2010 Shell installed by Twin CAT must be uninstalled separately if you do not want to keep it on your system. Uninstall Twin CAT 3 All components of Twin CAT 3 can be simply uninstalled using the standard Windows functions provided for this purpose; no separate uninstall program is required. Alternatively, you can run the installation program again. The program recognises that Twin CAT 3 is already installed and offers you the option of modifing (Modify option), repairing (Repair option) or removing (Remove option) the existing installation. Twin CAT 3 Version: 1.13.3 55

## Page 56

Installation Twin CAT 3.1 Build 4024 3.8 FAQ Overview • Why isn't the Twin CAT runtime icon displayed in the Windows menu bar? [} 56] • How do I install Twin CAT if the user directories are located on a network drive? [} 56] Why isn't the Twin CAT runtime icon displayed in the Windows menu bar? If the Twin CAT runtime icon is not displayed after the restart, it may be in the "Hidden icons" area. To show the hidden icons, click on the triangle icon in the windows menu bar. How do I install Twin CAT if the user directories are located on a network drive? Since the Twin CAT setup is run as an administrator, mapped network directories are not available to the installing administrator. In order to carry out the installation despite that, carry out the following steps: 1. Open the command prompt as an administrator. 2. Enter the command line command "net use <Drive>:\\server\folder\" so that the drive is also accessible for the setup. 3. Start the setup from the same command prompt. 56 Version: 1.13.3 Twin CAT 3

## Page 57

Installation of the Twin CAT 3 documentation 4 Installation of the Twin CAT 3 documentation The Twin CAT 3 Information System is part of the Beckhoff Information System and contains the complete Twin CAT 3 documentation. In order to be able to use the Twin CAT 3 Information System without Internet connection, you can install it locally on your Engineering PC. Twin CAT 3 uses the Visual Studio® help system (Microsoft Help Viewer), with can be used online or offline. You can use a default browser or the Help Viewer to display the help system. The setup for the Twin CAT 3 Information System supports the help systems of Visual Studio® 2010 (Help Viewer 1.0, Help Viewer 1.1), Visual Studio® 2012 (Help Viewer 2.0), Visual Studio® 2013 (Help Viewer 2.1), Visual Studio® 2015 (Help Viewer 2.2) and Visual Studio® 2017 (Help Viewer 2.3). It is available in German and English. The setup is updated on a monthly basis. The Twin CAT 3 Help already installed can be updated. See Updating the Twin CAT 3 documentation. The installer can be downloaded from the Beckhoff homepage: https://download.beckhoff.com/download/ Software/Twin CAT/Twin CAT3/Info System/ System requirements The following components must be installed for local installation and application of the Twin CAT 3 Information System: • Twin CAT 3 Engineering (XAE) including Visual Studio® Shell or Visual Studio® 2010 / 2012 / 2013 / 2015 / 2017 / 2019 (Express versions of Visual Studio® are not supported.) • Visual Studio® Help System ◦ Visual Studio® 2010: Installation of the help system in Visual Studio® with Service Pack 1 ◦ Visual Studio® 2012 / 2013 / 2015: Help system as an integral part of Visual Studio® ◦ Visual Studio® 2017 / 2019: Installation of the help system as a component during the installation of Visual Studio® See also: Installation of the Visual Studio® help system [} 62] Installation of the Twin CAT 3 documentation ü Twin CAT 3 and/or a compatible Visual Studio® help system is available. ü All Visual Studio® applications are closed. ü You have downloaded the current installation file TC3-Info Sys.exe for the Twin CAT 3 Information System from the Beckhoff website: https://download.beckhoff.com/download/Software/Twin CAT/Twin CAT3/ Info System/ 1. Right-click the installation file and select Run as Admin from the context menu that opens. 2. Follow the instructions of the setup procedure: • Activate the Complete option if the Twin CAT 3 Information System is to be installed for all compatible and available Visual Studio® help systems and languages. Please note that the installation can take up a significant amount of disk space, since the Twin CAT 3 Version: 1.13.3 57

## Page 58

Installation of the Twin CAT 3 documentation Twin CAT 3 Information System is installed for all help systems when several compatible Visual Studio® versions are present. • Select Custom if you only want to install certain languages for selected Visual Studio® help systems. 58 Version: 1.13.3 Twin CAT 3

## Page 59

Installation of the Twin CAT 3 documentation • If you select the Custom option, you then have to select the installation components (Features). Available language features Available help system features Feature selection The overview shows the languages available for the Twin CAT 3 Information System. Each language contains the available and supported Visual Studio® help systems as a subfeature. The features may vary depending on the system configuration and setup. You can set the installation for each of the components that are listed. To install the Twin CAT 3 Information System, you have to select at least one language variant from the available languages and one Visual Studio® help system from the available help systems. ◦ A selected feature is marked with a hard disk icon. ◦ An unselected / excluded feature is marked with a red cross. • Enable the option Automatic updates for Twin CAT 3 documentation to automatically update the installed Twin CAT 3 Information System via the Visual Studio® help system (this option is available from Visual Studio® 2012). If you selected a Visual Studio® help system that supports automatic updating in the previous dialog, this option is enabled by default, otherwise the option is disabled automatically. Twin CAT 3 Version: 1.13.3 59

## Page 60

Installation of the Twin CAT 3 documentation If this option is enabled, the setup creates a scheduled task “Twin CAT_3_documentation_update...”. This task checks weekly (every Friday between 11:00 and 17:00) whether updates are available for the installed Twin CAT 3 Information System. 3. Click Install to install the Twin CAT 3 Information System with the selected settings. 4. Complete the installation with Finish. ð The Twin CAT 3 Information System is installed locally. With Visual Studio® 2012 or later versions, an entry for opening and updating the local Twin CAT 3 Information System is created in the Windows Start menu in the Beckhoff > Twin CAT3 Information System folder. ð The Option “Yes, check for program updates (Recommended) after the setup completes.” searches for updates of the installed Twin CAT 3 documentation if an internet connection is available. 60 Version: 1.13.3 Twin CAT 3

## Page 61

Installation of the Twin CAT 3 documentation See also: • Updating the Twin CAT 3 documentation [} 69] • Calling the Twin CAT 3 documentations [} 64] Twin CAT 3 Version: 1.13.3 61

## Page 62

Installation of the Visual Studio® help system 5 Installation of the Visual Studio® help system The local Twin CAT 3 Information System is installed in the Visual Studio® help system (Microsoft Help Viewer). Depending on the Visual Studio® version, the Visual Studio® help system is either an integral part of Visual Studio® or it has to be installed separately. • Visual Studio 2010 help system [} 62] • Visual Studio 2012 / 2013 / 2015 help system [} 62] • Visual Studio 2017 / 2019 help system [} 62] Visual Studio® 2010 help system Help Viewer 1.0 or 1.1 is required for displaying and using the locally installed Twin CAT 3 Information System. Help Viewer 1.0 is automatically installed with Visual Studio® 2010. You can install Help Viewer 1.1 by installing Service Pack 1 for Visual Studio® 2010. Download Visual Studio® 2010, Service Pack 1 Service Pack 1 can be downloaded from the My. Visual Studio.com website through your Visual Studio® subscription account. Visual Studio® 2012 / 2013 / 2015 help system Depending on the Visual Studio® version, one of the following help systems is required for displaying and using the locally installed Twin CAT 3 Information System: Visual Studio® 2012: Help Viewer 2.0 Visual Studio® 2013: Help Viewer 2.1 Visual Studio® 2015: Help Viewer 2.2 The help systems are included as standard with the installation of Visual Studio® 2012 / 2013 / 2015. Visual Studio® 2017 / 2019 help system Help Viewer 2.3 is required for displaying and using the locally installed Twin CAT 3 Information System. In contrast to previous Visual Studio® versions, the help system is no longer an integrated component of Visual Studio®. Instead, it is provided as an optional component during the installation of Visual Studio® 2017 / 2019. Installing the Visual Studio® help system The help system is installed as a component during the installation of Visual Studio® 2017 / 2019. ü The setup for Visual Studio® 2017 / 2019 has been called. 1. Click the Individual components tab. 62 Version: 1.13.3 Twin CAT 3

## Page 63

Installation of the Visual Studio® help system 2. Select the Help Viewer component in the Code tools section. (Source: https://docs.microsoft.com/de-de/visualstudio/ide/microsoft-help-viewer-installation? view=vs-2017) 3. Continue installing Visual Studio® 2017 / 2019 and complete the installation. Twin CAT 3 Version: 1.13.3 63

## Page 64

Calling the Twin CAT 3 documentations 6 Calling the Twin CAT 3 documentations From Visual Studio® 2013, the Twin CAT 3 help system uses the Beckhoff Information System if no local Twin CAT Information System has been installed. In this case, the Twin CAT 3 context help uses the browser of the operating system to search for the articles online in the Beckhoff Information System and to display them according to the search in the system's web browser. An Internet connection is required for this and the address https://infosys.beckhoff.com must be reachable. With the installation of the Twin CAT 3 Information System, the help system is set to use the local help. The use of the local help or the online help respectively can be set in the Twin CAT Help menu (Visual Studio® 2013 and later). In the Help menu, open the submenu "Define help settings". • Browser: Searches online in the Beckhoff Information System for articles on the context help used. • Help Viewer: Searches in the installed local Twin CAT 3 Help for the corresponding articles You can call the local help system via the Windows Start menu or in the Twin CAT 3 Engineering (XAE) via the context help (F1 Help) or the Help menu. • Calling up the Twin CAT 3 documentation via the Windows Start menu [} 66] • Calling up the Twin CAT 3 documentation via the Help menu [} 65] • Calling up the Twin CAT 3 documentation via the context help [} 66] Calling up the Twin CAT 3 documentation via the Windows Start menu ü You have downloaded and installed the Twin CAT 3 Information System. ü During the installation, a shortcut to the Help Viewer was created in the Windows Start menu. Depending on the system configuration and the (pre-)set installation components, several links may be available (e.g. for the German and English versions of the Twin CAT 3 Information System). 64 Version: 1.13.3 Twin CAT 3

## Page 65

Calling the Twin CAT 3 documentations 1. Open the Beckhoff folder in the Windows Start menu. 2. Click Information System <Language> - VS <Version>. ð The Twin CAT 3 Information System is opened with Help Viewer. Calling up the Twin CAT 3 documentation via the Help menu ü Twin CAT 3 Engineering is open. Twin CAT 3 Version: 1.13.3 65

## Page 66

Calling the Twin CAT 3 documentations 1. Open the Help menu and select the Show Help command. ð The Twin CAT 3 Information System is opened with the Help Viewer of the Visual Studio® help system. In the tree view of the open Help Viewer, select Help Viewer - Home > Welcome to the Beckhoff Information System > Twin CAT 3. Calling up the Twin CAT 3 documentation via the context help With the context help, the position of the mouse pointer (for graphical elements) or a selected text expression within the editor is evaluated by the help system in order to display the appropriate linked help text. Limited help function due to different language settings If you have installed the Twin CAT 3 Information System in a language other than Visual Studio®, the help system is only available to a limited extent. 66 Version: 1.13.3 Twin CAT 3

## Page 67

Calling the Twin CAT 3 documentations Various displays From Visual Studio® 2013 it is possible to use the context help with the Beckhoff Information System. Depending on the setting of the help system [} 64], the result is displayed locally in the Help Viewer or in the system's web browser. The following guide shows you how to use the local Twin CAT 3 Help. The online help is used analogously. Only the articles are displayed in the web browser. ü A Twin CAT 3 project is opened. ü The Start in Help Viewer command is enabled in the menu Help > Define help settings (from Help Viewer 2.0). 1. Open an editor for the supported text-based Twin CAT 3 programming languages, e.g. ST or C++. 2. Select the desired expression and press the [F1] key. Twin CAT 3 Version: 1.13.3 67

## Page 68

Calling the Twin CAT 3 documentations ð The Help Viewer opens, and the corresponding article from the Twin CAT 3 Information System linked to the selected expression is displayed. 68 Version: 1.13.3 Twin CAT 3

## Page 69

Updating the Twin CAT 3 documentation 7 Updating the Twin CAT 3 documentation All language variants of the Twin CAT 3 Information System are updated weekly. A locally installed Twin CAT 3 Information System can be updated manually via the Visual Studio® help system. The procedure depends on the Visual Studio® version or the help system. See also: • Installation of the Twin CAT 3 documentation [} 57] 7.1 Update in Visual Studio® The procedure described below for updating the Twin CAT 3 Information System is valid for Visual Studio® 2012 / 2013 / 2015 / 2017 / 2019. When the Twin CAT 3 Information System is installed, an entry is created in the Windows start menu, which can be used to update the Twin CAT 3 Information System directly. ü An internet connection is available. ü You have administrator rights. 1. Open the Beckhoff folder in the Windows Start menu. 2. Click Update TC3-Info Sys (<Language>) (VS<Version>). Twin CAT 3 Version: 1.13.3 69

## Page 70

Updating the Twin CAT 3 documentation 3. In the dialog that opens, confirm that changes may be made to the system. ð The help system checks whether an update for the Twin CAT 3 Information System is available. A help system icon is displayed in the Windows menu bar. When you move the mouse pointer over the help system icon, the update progress is displayed. 4. Confirm that the Twin CAT 3 Information System may be updated. 70 Version: 1.13.3 Twin CAT 3

## Page 71

Updating the Twin CAT 3 documentation ð The update status is displayed in the Windows menu bar: 7.2 Update in Visual Studio® 2010 If an internet connection is available, the installed Twin CAT 3 Information System can be updated directly via the Visual Studio® help system in Twin CAT 3 Engineering. ü An internet connection is available. 1. Start Twin CAT 3 Engineering or Visual Studio® 2010. 2. Select Manage Help Settings from the Help menu. Twin CAT 3 Version: 1.13.3 71

## Page 72

Updating the Twin CAT 3 documentation 3. In the help system dialog that opens, click Check for updates online. ð The help system checks whether an update for the Twin CAT 3 Information System is available. Available updates for installed documentation components are displayed. 72 Version: 1.13.3 Twin CAT 3

## Page 73

Updating the Twin CAT 3 documentation 4. Click Update to download the available updates. 5. Confirm the installation of the update package with Yes. Twin CAT 3 Version: 1.13.3 73

## Page 74

Updating the Twin CAT 3 documentation ð Close the dialog after a successful update with Finish. 74 Version: 1.13.3 Twin CAT 3

## Page 75

Changing the language of the Twin CAT development environment 8 Changing the language of the Twin CAT development environment Installing Visual Studio® language packs Twin CAT 3 uses Visual Studio® ("Professional" functionality or higher) or the Visual Studio® Shell as the development environment. Various language packs are offered for Visual Studio®. A distinction is thereby made between the functional specification of the development environment and the supported languages. The languages supported by Visual Studio® are described on the MSDN page: • Languages supported by Visual Studio® (2013): https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/de/vs/older- downloads/isolated-shell/ Log in to VS or Microsoft to download the speech package. Installation of the German language pack for the Twin CAT development environment (Visual Studio® Shell) ü You have downloaded the appropriate language pack from the MSDN page for the Visual Studio® Shell you are using (https://msdn.microsoft.com): The language packs can be downloaded from the MSDN customer area (login required). (a) Language pack for Visual Studio Shell (isolated) (b) Language pack for Visual Studio Shell (integrated) 1. First install the language pack for the "isolated shell" (a). 2. Now install the language pack for the "integrated shell" (b). ð Following successful installation, you can change the language of the Twin CAT 3 development environment [} 75]. Changing the Twin CAT menu language The Visual Studio® Shell is used with the installation of Twin CAT 3 without Visual Studio®. The preset menu language is English. You can change the menu language in the Visual Studio® options. Twin CAT 3 Version: 1.13.3 75

## Page 76

Changing the language of the Twin CAT development environment 1. Select the Options command in the Tools menu and Environment > International Settings in the options dialog which then opens. ð The Language area displays the languages (in this case German, English). 2. Select the desired available language and close the dialog with OK. ð The language change becomes effective with the next restart of Visual Studio®. Calling Visual Studio® with language parameters It is also possible to quickly check the installed menu language of Visual Studio® and to change the language with a direct call. 1. Enter the following command in the command line or in the Run window: devenv /lcid 1031 for the German menu language or devenv /lcid 1033 for the English menu language ð Visual Studio® or the Twin CAT 3 development environment (Visual Studio® Shell) then opens with the specified menu language, provided this language is installed. 76 Version: 1.13.3 Twin CAT 3

## Page 77

Support and Service 9 Support and Service Beckhoff and their partners around the world offer comprehensive support and service, making available fast and competent assistance with all questions related to Beckhoff products and system solutions. Download finder Our download finder contains all the files that we offer you for downloading. You will find application reports, technical documentation, technical drawings, configuration files and much more. The downloads are available in various formats. Beckhoff's branch offices and representatives Please contact your Beckhoff branch office or representative for local support and service on Beckhoff products! The addresses of Beckhoff's branch offices and representatives round the world can be found on our internet page: www.beckhoff.com You will also find further documentation for Beckhoff components there. Beckhoff Support Support offers you comprehensive technical assistance, helping you not only with the application of individual Beckhoff products, but also with other, wide-ranging services: • support • design, programming and commissioning of complex automation systems • and extensive training program for Beckhoff system components Hotline: +49 5246 963-157 e-mail: support@beckhoff.com Beckhoff Service The Beckhoff Service Center supports you in all matters of after-sales service: • on-site service • repair service • spare parts service • hotline service Hotline: +49 5246 963-460 e-mail: service@beckhoff.com Beckhoff Headquarters Beckhoff Automation Gmb H & Co. KG Huelshorstweg 20 33415 Verl Germany Phone: +49 5246 963-0 e-mail: info@beckhoff.com web: www.beckhoff.com Twin CAT 3 Version: 1.13.3 77

## Page 78

Trademark statements Beckhoff®, ATRO®, Ether CAT®, Ether CAT G®, Ether CAT G10®, Ether CAT P®, MX-System®, Safety over Ether CAT®, TC/BSD®, Twin CAT®, Twin CAT/BSD®, Twin SAFE®, XFC®, XPlanar® and XTS® are registered and licensed trademarks of Beckhoff Automation Gmb H. Third-party trademark statements Microsoft, Microsoft Azure, Microsoft Edge, Power Shell, Visual Studio, Windows and Xbox are trademarks of the Microsoft group of companies.

## Page 79

More Information: www.beckhoff.com/automation Beckhoff Automation Gmb H & Co. KG Hülshorstweg 20 33415 Verl Germany Phone: +49 5246 9630 info@beckhoff.com www.beckhoff.com
