---
title: "TF5200"
product: "TF5200"
category: "Motion_Control"
tags: ["NC"]
language: "EN"
document_type: "Manual"
version: "1.081"
source_pdf: "https://download.beckhoff.com/download/Document/automation/twincat3/TF5200_tool_data_en.pdf"
release_date: "2025-06-05"
---
Manual | EN TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Tool data 6/5/2025 | Version: 1.081
## Page 3

Notes on the documentation Notes on the documentation This description is only intended for the use of trained specialists in control and automation engineering who are familiar with the applicable national standards. It is essential that the documentation and the following notes and explanations are followed when installing and commissioning the components. It is the duty of the technical personnel to use the documentation published at the respective time of each installation and commissioning. The responsible staff must ensure that the application or use of the products described satisfy all the requirements for safety, including all the relevant laws, regulations, guidelines and standards. Disclaimer The documentation has been prepared with care. The products described are, however, constantly under development. We reserve the right to revise and change the documentation at any time and without prior announcement. No claims for the modification of products that have already been supplied may be made on the basis of the data, diagrams and descriptions in this documentation. Trademarks Beckhoff®, Twin CAT®, Twin CAT/BSD®, TC/BSD®, Ether CAT®, Ether CAT G®, Ether CAT G10®, Ether CAT P®, Safety over Ether CAT®, Twin SAFE®, XFC®, XTS® and XPlanar® are registered trademarks of and licensed by Beckhoff Automation Gmb H. Other designations used in this publication may be trademarks whose use by third parties for their own purposes could violate the rights of the owners. Patent Pending The Ether CAT technology is patent protected, in particular by the following applications and patents: EP1590927, EP1789857, EP1456722, EP2137893, DE102015105702 with corresponding applications or registrations in various other countries. Ether CAT® is registered trademark and patented technology, licensed by Beckhoff Automation Gmb H, Germany Copyright © Beckhoff Automation Gmb H & Co. KG, Germany. The reproduction, distribution and utilisation of this document as well as the communication of its contents to others without express authorisation are prohibited. Offenders will be held liable for the payment of damages. All rights reserved in the event of the grant of a patent, utility model or design. TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 1.081 3 Tool data
## Page 4

General and safety instructions General and safety instructions Icons used and their meanings This documentation uses the following icons next to the safety instruction and the associated text. Please read the (safety) instructions carefully and comply with them at all times. Icons in explanatory text 1. Indicates an action. ð Indicates an action statement. DANGER Acute danger to life! If you fail to comply with the safety instruction next to this icon, there is immediate danger to human life and health. CAUTION Personal injury and damage to machines! If you fail to comply with the safety instruction next to this icon, it may result in personal injury or damage to machines. NOTICE Restriction or error This icon describes restrictions or warns of errors. Tips and other notes This icon indicates information to assist in general understanding or to provide additional informa- tion. General example Example that clarifies the text. NC programming example Programming example (complete NC program or program sequence) of the described function or NC com- mand. Specific version information Optional or restricted function. The availability of this function depends on the configuration and the scope of the version. 4 Version: 1.081 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Tool data
## Page 5

Table of contents Table of contents Notes on the documentation.................................................................................................................... 3 General and safety instructions.............................................................................................................. 4 Overview of tool parameters.................................................................................................................... 8 1 General description................................................................................................................................ 11 1.1 Links to other documents................................................................................................................ 11 1.2 Structure and classification of start-up parameters......................................................................... 11 1.3 Syntax and interpretation of ASCII list file....................................................................................... 11 1.4 Comments in the ASCII list file........................................................................................................ 12 2 Description of elements......................................................................................................................... 13 2.1 Tool data (wz[i].*)............................................................................................................................ 13 2.1.1 Type (P-TOOL-00001)..................................................................................................... 14 2.1.2 Cutter position (P-TOOL-00002)...................................................................................... 14 2.1.3 Tool length (P-TOOL-00003)........................................................................................... 16 2.1.4 Tool radius (P-TOOL-00004)........................................................................................... 16 2.1.5 Tool orientation (P-TOOL-00146).................................................................................... 16 2.1.6 Validity flag (P-TOOL-00005)........................................................................................... 17 2.1.7 Axis offsets (P-TOOL-00006)........................................................................................... 18 2.1.8 Additional tool parameters (P-TOOL-00007)................................................................... 18 2.1.9 Unit of length, radius and axis offsets (P-TOOL-00008).................................................. 19 2.1.10 Kinematic parameters (P-TOOL-00009).......................................................................... 19 2.1.11 Tool fixed / alignable (P-TOOL-00010)............................................................................ 19 2.1.12 Kinematic ID (P-TOOL-00011)......................................................................................... 20 2.1.13 Dynamic and gear data.................................................................................................... 21 2.1.14 Data for grinding applications........................................................................................... 25 2.1.15 Data for visualisation and collision monitoring................................................................. 26 2.1.16 Path-specific tool data (wz[i].path[j].*).............................................................................. 33 2.1.17 Settings for the free configuration of the tool number...................................................... 33 3 Example of assigning tool data............................................................................................................. 36 4 Appendix.................................................................................................................................................. 38 4.1 Discontinued parameters................................................................................................................ 38 4.1.1 Name of the assigned partial kinematic (P-TOOL-00148)............................................... 38 5 Support and Service............................................................................................................................... 39 Index......................................................................................................................................................... 40 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 5 Tool data
## Page 6

Table of contents 6 Version: TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Tool data
## Page 7

List of figures List of figures Fig. 1 Tool system with several drills..................................................................................................... 21 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 1.081 7 Tool data
## Page 8

Overview of tool parameters Overview of tool parameters The overview of tool parameters offsets is sorted into a 4-column table. • Column 1 contains the unambiguous identifier of the axis parameter called the “ID” which consists of the prefix “P-TOOL” and a unique 5-digit number, e.g. P-TOOL-00001. • Column 2 represents the data structure which defines the parameter, e.g. wz[i]. The structure is a categorisation aid and is described in the following section. • Column 3 contains the “parameter” with its exact name, e.g. typ The important thing is that “structure”+”parameter” always belong together and must be configured in exactly the same way in the axis parameter list, e.g. wz[i].typ • Column 4 contains the “functionality” in a summarised term/short description, e.g. Differentiation between tool types. ID Structure Parameter Functionality/short de- scription P-TOOL-00001 wz[i]. typ Type [} 14] P-TOOL-00002 wz[i]. srk_lage Cutter edge position [} 14] P-TOOL-00003 wz[i]. laenge Tool length [} 16] P-TOOL-00004 wz[i]. radius Tool radius [} 16] P-TOOL-00005 wz[i]. gueltig Validity flag [} 17] P-TOOL-00006 wz[i]. ax_versatz[j] Axis offsets [} 18] P-TOOL-00007 wz[i]. param[j] Additional tool parameters [} 18] P-TOOL-00008 wz[i]. mass_einheit Unit of length, radius and axis offsets [} 19] P-TOOL-00009 wz[i].kinematic. param[j] Kinematic parameters [} 19] P-TOOL-00010 wz[i]. tool_fixed Tool fixed / alignable [} 19] P-TOOL-00011 wz[i]. kin_id Kinematic ID [} 20] P-TOOL-00012 wz[i]. log_ax_nr_spdl Logical spindle axis number [} 21] P-TOOL-00013 wz[i]. vb_min Minimum rotation speed [} 22] P-TOOL-00014 wz[i]. vb_max Maximum rotation speed [} 22] P-TOOL-00015 wz[i]. a_max Maximum acceleration [} 22] P-TOOL-00016 wz[i]. gear_ratio_num Gear ratio of a tool (numerator) [} 23] 8 Version: 1.081 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Tool data
## Page 9

Overview of tool parameters ID Structure Parameter Functionality/short de- scription P-TOOL-00017 wz[i]. gear_ratio_denom Gear ratio of a tool (denominator) [} 23] P-TOOL-00018 wz[i]. gear_inv_direction Reversal of rotation direction by gear [} 23] P-TOOL-00019 wz[i]. gear_inv_direction_no_st Reversal of rotation direction op without spindle standstill [} 24] P-TOOL-00020 wz[i].path[j]. radius Tool radius [} 33] P-TOOL-00030 wz[i]. grinding_wear_const Wear constant [} 25] P-TOOL-00031 wz[i]. grinding_max_infeed Maximum discrete infeed [} 25] P-TOOL-00100 wz[i].linkpoint_data. name Name [} 27] P-TOOL-00101 wz[i].linkpoint_data. mountpoint Mountpoint [} 27] P-TOOL-00102 wz[i].linkpoint_data. translation[k] Translation of main axes [} 27] P-TOOL-00103 wz[i].linkpoint_data. rotation[k] Rotation of main axes [} 27] P-TOOL-00104 wz[i].linkpoint_data. ax_nr Axis number [} 28] P-TOOL-00105 wz[i].linkpoint_data. trans_rot Translation/rotation of linkpoint [} 28] P-TOOL-00106 wz[i].linkpoint_data. inverse Effect of the movement on the linkpoint [} 28] P-TOOL-00107 wz[i].linkpoint_data. visible Use of the linkpoint [} 28] P-TOOL-00108 wz[i].linkpoint_data. fixed Position of linkpoint after axis exchange [} 29] P-TOOL-00109 wz[i].linkpoint_data. arm_len Maximum lever arm length [} 29] P-TOOL-00120 wz[i].gobject_data[j]. name Name of the graphical object [} 29] P-TOOL-00121 wz[i].gobject_data[j]. linkpoint Linkpoint name [} 30] P-TOOL-00122 wz[i].gobject_data[j]. group[k] Group name [} 30] P-TOOL-00123 wz[i].gobject_data[j]. translation[k] Translation of object [} 30] P-TOOL-00124 wz[i].gobject_data[j]. rotation[k] Rotation of object [} 30] P-TOOL-00125 wz[i].gobject_data[j]. relative Effect of shift and rotation [} 31] P-TOOL-00126 wz[i].gobject_data[j]. file File containing description of object data [} 31] TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 1.081 9 Tool data
## Page 10

Overview of tool parameters ID Structure Parameter Functionality/short de- scription P-TOOL-00127 wz[i].gobject_data[j]. key[k] Key name [} 31] P-TOOL-00128 wz[i].gobject_data[j]. value[k] Value name [} 31] P-TOOL-00129 wz[i].gobject_data[j]. changed Information about a change [} 32] P-TOOL-00138 wz[i]. grinding_disc_tilt_angle Grinding disc tilt angle [} 26] P-TOOL-00140 tool_data_with_id Free assignment of the tool number [} 33] P-TOOL-00141 wz[i].tool_id. basic Basic tool number [} 34] P-TOOL-00142 wz[i].tool_id. sister Sister tool number [} 34] P-TOOL-00143 wz[i].tool_id. variant Variant tool number [} 34] P-TOOL-00144 wz[i].tool_id. sister_valid Validity flag of the sister tool [} 34] P-TOOL-00145 wz[i].tool_id. variant_valid Validity flag of the variant tool [} 34] P-TOOL-00146 wz[i]. orientation_vector[j] Tool orientation by specifying a vector [} 16] P-TOOL-00147 wz[i]. additional_settings Extended tool settings (modes) [} 21] P-TOOL-00149 wz[i]. sub_type Tool subcategory [} 14] 10 Version: 1.081 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Tool data
## Page 11

General description 1 General description 1.1 Links to other documents For the sake of clarity, links to other documents and parameters are abbreviated, e.g. [PROG] for the Programming Manual or P-AXIS-00001 for an axis parameter. For technical reasons these links only function in the Online Help (HTML5, CHM) but not in pdf files since pdfs do not support cross-linking. 1.2 Structure and classification of start-up parameters The start-up list parameters contain application-specific data and links to files that are required to start up the NC kernel. The number of axes, the number of channels and path specifications also used to search for specific ASCII files can be specified in these ASCII files. Value ranges of parameters may also be defined by stating a limit resulting from data width, e.g. MAX(UNS16), etc. 1.3 Syntax and interpretation of ASCII list file An interpreter copies the entries in the ASCII list file into identical internal structures which are then checked for plausibility. To ensure reliable controller start-up every time, any defective entries found by the plausibility check are replaced by default values. Unknown entries are not taken over. These irregularities are displayed by warning messages. We advise you to investigate the cause for these warning messages and remove defective entries from the ASCII list file. The following agreement applies to BOOLEAN data: Value Meaning 0 Definition of FALSE 1 Definition of TRUE The following agreement applies to STRING data: If a character string containing characters with a special meaning in ASCII lists (e.g. comment characters, spaces [} 12]) is assigned to a STRING type list parameter, this character string must be defined in inverted commas ″..″ (available as of V3.1.3081.0, V3.1.3108.0). example[0].name ″STRING_WITH_COMMENT( # /*)_CHARACTERS″ Trailing spaces are discarded on import. The entry.. example[0].name ″STRING_WITH_POST_SPACES ″ ..has the same meaning as example[0].name ″STRING_WITH_POST_SPACES″ If the character string only contains characters without any special meaning, no inverted commas are required. example[0].name STRING_WITH_STANDARD_CHARACTERS! TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 1.081 11 Tool data
## Page 12

General description 1.4 Comments in the ASCII list file Comments can be in an entire line or can be added at the end of a line. With a comment spanning an entire line, the comment character "'#" must be placed at the start of the line and followed by a blank. If a comment is to be inserted at the end of a line, only a blank is required before the comment. Blank lines are also possible. Comments in the ASCII list file # ************************************************************************ # Data # ************************************************************************ # # List comments after numerical values dummy[1] 1 Comment dummy[2] 1 # Comment dummy[3] 1 ( Comment dummy[4] 1 /* Comment ... ... However, if a character string was assigned to the list parameter as a value in the line, any following comment must be opened by a bracket '('. The comment characters space, # and /* are not permitted. If a '(' itself is part of the character string, the character string must be defined in inverted commas ″..″ (available as of V3.1.3081.0, V3.1.3108.0). # List comments after strings beispiel[0].bezeichnung STRING_1 (comment requires a '(‘ bracket!) beispiel[1].bezeichnung″ STRING_(2)″ (comment requires a '(‘ bracket!) 12 Version: 1.081 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Tool data
## Page 13

Description of elements 2 Description of elements 2.1 Tool data (wz[i].*) The 'wz[i]’ structure defines the data of a tool with the number ‘i’. Structure name Index wz[i] i = 0 to 200 (number of tool data records: 201, application-specific) The following relationship exists between the D function and the tool data index ‘i’. D function Tool data index ‘i’. D 0 0 D 1 1 D 2 2 D 3 3 D 4 4 D 5 5 D 6 6 D 7 7 The tool data index 'i' therefore corresponds to the tool number programmed in the NC program using the T or D command. NOTICE Data of the tool with index ‘0’ is assigned the value ‘0’ after the ASCII file is interpreted. In this way, all tool axis offsets can be calculated from the path motions by programming ‘D0’ in the NC program. TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 1.081 13 Tool data
## Page 14

Description of elements 2.1.1 Type (P-TOOL-00001) P-TOOL-00001 Type Description This parameter is assigned to distinguish between tool types. Parameter wz[i].typ or wz[i].type Data type UNS16 Data range 0: Milling tool 1: Turning tool 2: Grinding tool 3: Wire (erosion) Dimension ---- Default value 0 Remarks Parameterisation example: Tool 5 is a milling tool wz[5].typ 0 2.1.1.1 Tool: subcategory P-TOOL-00149 Tool subcategory Description This subcategory can be assigned by the user to classify tools of the same type (P- TOOL-00001 [} 14]). This data item is only meant as display data. The user must define the valid data range for the available data format. The CNC itself does not use the specified subcategory. However, it can be used for application-specific functions, e.g. in subroutines or cycles. The tool subcategory is provided by CNC objects and by the V. G. variables WZ[j]. SUB_TYPE or WZ_AKT. SUB_TYPE. Parameter wz[i].sub_type Data type UNS16 Data range 0<= P-TOOL-00149 < MAX(UNS16) Dimension ---- Default value 0 Remarks Available as of Build V3.1.3081.6 or V3.1.3113.0 2.1.2 Cutter position (P-TOOL-00002) P-TOOL-00002 Cutter edge position Description With rotary tools (P-TOOL-00001 [} 14] = 1), this parameter specifies the orientation of the cutter relative to the machining plane. 14 Version: 1.081 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Tool data
## Page 15

Description of elements Ident. codes 1 to 9 for orientation of the turning tool tip in the machining plane. Parameter wz[i].srk_lage Data type UNS16 Data range 0 < srk_lage ≤ 9 Dimension ---- Default value 0 Remarks For detailed information regarding machining with turning tools, see [PROG]. Parameterisation example: The orientation of the cutter tip of Tool 6 is described by identification code 3. wz[6].typ 1 wz[6].srk_lage 3 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 1.081 15 Tool data
## Page 16

Description of elements 2.1.3 Tool length (P-TOOL-00003) P-TOOL-00003 Tool length Description This parameter defines the tool length. Parameter wz[i].laenge Data type SGN32 Data range MIN(SGN32) < length < MAX(SGN32) Dimension 0.1µm or 0.0001 inch Default value 0 Remarks Parameterisation example: The length of Tool 5 is 60 mm wz[5].laenge 600000 2.1.4 Tool radius (P-TOOL-00004) P-TOOL-00004 Tool radius Description This parameter defines the tool radius. Parameter wz[i].radius Data type SGN32 Data range MIN(SGN32) ≤ radius < MAX(SGN32) Dimension 0.1µm or 0.0001 inch Default value 0 Remarks Parameterisation example: The radius of Tool 5 is 20 mm wz[5].radius 200000 2.1.5 Tool orientation (P-TOOL-00146) P-TOOL-00146 Tool orientation by specifying a vector 16 Version: 1.081 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Tool data
## Page 17

Description of elements Description In 2.5D mode, if a tool is in parallel or at a fixed angle to the main axes of the machine coordinate system, this orientation can be described as a vector. Vector components are defined in the direction of the tool tip, either scaled or unscaled, starting at the tool mount point. When selecting the tool, the orientation vector is used to form axis-specific offset components of the tool length. Parameter wz[i].orientation_vector[j] where j=0...2 Data type REAL64 Data range MIN(REAL64) ≤ orientation_vector[j] ≤ MAX(REAL64) Dimension ---- Default value 0.0 Remarks The vector position always refers to the machine coordinate system. If the orientation vector is not assigned (=0), the tool length is considered using the default method (plane-specific, #TLAX). Parameterisation example: Tool T1 is oriented opposite to the positive Z axis direction: wz[1].orientation_vector[0] 0 wz[1].orientation_vector[1] 0 wz[1].orientation_vector[2] -1 2.1.6 Validity flag (P-TOOL-00005) P-TOOL-00005 Validity flag Description If the data of a tool is allowed to be used, the validity flag must be set to TRUE. TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 1.081 17 Tool data
## Page 18

Description of elements Parameter wz[i].gueltig Data type BOOLEAN Data range 0/1 Dimension ---- Default value 0 Remarks Parameterisation example: The data of Tool 5 is enabled. wz[5].gueltig 1 2.1.7 Axis offsets (P-TOOL-00006) P-TOOL-00006 Axis offsets Description An offset parameter is defined for every tool and for every axis. Parameter wz[i].ax_versatz[j] where j = 0 ... 31 (Maximum number of axes per channel: 32, application-specific) Data type SGN32 Data range MIN(SGN32) < ax_versatz[j] < MAX(SGN32) Dimension 0.1µm or 0.0001 inch Default value 0 Remarks With active kinematic transformation, tool axis offsets are only considered in the axes which are not affected by the transformation function. Depending on the transformation type, they typically refer to all axes with index > 2 when RTCP is used. The axis-specific tool offsets of the first three axes (index 0, 1, 2) are not considered when transformation is active. If tool offsets are also to exert an effect on these axes during active transformation, enter the values in the specific kinematic offsets of the tool (P-TOOL-00009 [} 19]). Parameterisation example: The tool axis offsets are: 205 mm for the first axis, 206 mm for the second, 307 mm for the third and -408 mm for the fourth axis. wz[5].ax_versatz[0] 2050000 #Offset 1st axis 205 mm wz[5].ax_versatz[1] 2060000 #Offset 2nd axis 206 mm wz[5].ax_versatz[2] 3070000 #Offset 3rd axis 307 mm wz[5].ax_versatz[3] -4080000 #Offset 4th Axis -408 mm 2.1.8 Additional tool parameters (P-TOOL-00007) P-TOOL-00007 Additional tool parameters Description The user can use this parameter to freely define additional parameters for each tool. Parameter wz[i].param[j] where j = 0 ... 59 (number of additional freely defined parameters per tool: 60, application-specific) Data type REAL64 Data range MIN(REAL64) ≤ param[j] ≤ MAX(REAL64) Dimension ---- Default value 0 Remarks Parameterisation example: Additional free parameters are defined for Tool 5 wz[5].param[0] 1 wz[5].param[1] 20.5 wz[5].param[2] 120 18 Version: 1.081 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Tool data
## Page 19

Description of elements 2.1.9 Unit of length, radius and axis offsets (P-TOOL-00008) P-TOOL-00008 Unit of length, radius and axis offsets Description This parameter defines the unit of length, radius and axis offsets of the tool. Parameter wz[i].mass_einheit Data type UNS16 Data range 0: Dimensional unit of length, radius and axis offsets is millimetres (10-4 mm) 1: Dimensional unit of length, radius and axis offsets is inch (10-4 inch) Dimension ---- Default value 0 Remarks This parameter is only used to adopt tool data for length (P-TOOL-00003 [} 16]), radius (P-TOOL-00004 [} 16]) and axis offsets (P-TOOL-00006 [} 18]) from a tool list. This parameter has no meaning if tool data is adopted from an external tool management system (e.g. from the PLC). Parameterisation example: The tool data of length, radius and axis offsets is specified in the unit 'millimetre'. wz[5].mass_einheit 0 2.1.10 Kinematic parameters (P-TOOL-00009) P-TOOL-00009 Kinematic parameters Description These parameters are used for tool-dependent parameterisation of kinematic transformation (RTCP / TLC / TOOL ORI CS [PROG]). Assignment is defined application-specific. Parameter wz[i].kinematic.param[j] where j = 0 … 74 (maximum number of kinematic parameters, application-specific, syntax as of V263 and higher) Data type SGN32 Data range MIN(SGN32) < param[j] < MAX(SGN32) Dimension 0.1µm Default value 0 Remarks wz[i].kinematic.wz_kopf_versatz[j] (Syntax up to V260) In addition, it is possible to enter offsets for every kinematic parameter in the channel parameters P-CHAN-00094. If an element is assigned in both lists, the CNC performs an addition of the specified values. For more details regarding the parameterisation of kinematic transformation for 5- axis machining, see [KITRA] and [PROG]. Parameterisation example: wz[5].kinematic.param[0] 1538000 #Tool offset 1: 153.8 mm wz[5].kinematic.param[1] 25000 #Tool offset 2: 2.5 mm wz[5].kinematic.param[2] 0 #Tool offset 3: 0 mm wz[5].kinematic.param[5] 900000 #Tool offset 6: 90 mm 2.1.11 Tool fixed / alignable (P-TOOL-00010) P-TOOL-00010 Tool fixed / alignable Description This parameter is assigned the value TRUE if the tool orientation relative to the machine axis coordinate system and in combination with the 'Machining Coordinate System' [PROG] functionality cannot and should not be changed (e.g. because of non existent rotary axes). In this case, tool axis offsets (P-TOOL-00006 [} 18]) as components of the tool offset vector always relate to the machine axes. Parameter wz[i].tool_fixed TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 1.081 19 Tool data
## Page 20

Description of elements Data type BOOLEAN Data range 0/1 Dimension ---- Default value 0 Remarks Parameterisation example: This parameter indicates whether the measuring probe is aligned in parallel to the axes of the rotated coordinate system for measuring in the machining coordinate system wz[5].tool_fixed 1 #Tool fixed 2.1.12 Kinematic ID (P-TOOL-00011) P-TOOL-00011 Kinematic ID Description The purpose of kinematic ID is to identify the machine or tool head specific kinematic types implemented in the controller. This parameter defines the kinematic transformation to be used for the tool. When it is assigned the value 0, the kinematic ID results from the default setting as described in P-CHAN-00032 or from the programming in the NC program (#KIN ID [...] or #TRAFO [...]). The kinematic ID always refers to a transformation which must be defined in the channel parameters in a data record of the first kinematic step (kin_step[0].trafo[*].id or trafo[*].id). Parameter wz[i].kin_id Data type UNS16 Data range 0 ≤ kin_id ≤ MAX(UNS16) Dimension ---- Default value 0 Remarks 20 Version: 1.081 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Tool data
## Page 21

Description of elements 2.1.13 Dynamic and gear data Depending on the application, it may be necessary to define specific dynamic data for some tools. This data is used in the spindle to limit speed and acceleration during machining. The logical axis number of the spindle must also be specified in order to transmit the dynamic data to the spindle with the assigned tool. 2.1.13.1 Extended tool settings (P-TOOL-00147) P-TOOL-00147 Extended tool settings (modes) Description This parameter enables additional modes for the tool. The following modes are currently available: • NONE: no additional modes (default) • GEAR_CHANGE_NO_STOP: All the functions of the parameter P-TOOL-00019 [} 24] can be used when this mode is set. It permits a change in the rotation direction of M3/M4 or M4/M3 when this mode is set. In addition to P-TOOL-00019 [} 24] this mode can also differentiate between the gear ratios of the two tools. An “internal” gear change then takes place without the spindle stopping. However, the mode must be set for all the tools participating in the change. Note: Only use this parameter if no physical tool change is linked to the D/T word (e.g. several drills/milling cutters on one machine). Parameter wz[i].additional_settings Data type STRING Data range NONE, GEAR_CHANGE_NO_STOP Unit ---- Default value NONE Remarks Parameter available as of V3.01.3068.06 This parameter may be used for a tool system, for example, where the same spindle drives several drills simultaneously. Fig. 1: Tool system with several drills 2.1.13.2 Logical spindle axis number (P-TOOL-00012) P-TOOL-00012 Logical spindle axis number TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 1.081 21 Tool data
## Page 22

Description of elements Description The dynamic data of the tool is assigned by the logical axis number of the spindle which will carry the tool after it is changed. If the logical axis number is assigned the value 0, no dynamic data is transferred to the spindle when the tool is changed. Dynamic data is modal in the spindle. It can either be overwritten • by the dynamic data of a new tool or • be reset by S[DEFAUL_DYNAMIK_DATA] to the default values configured. Parameter wz[i].log_ax_nr_spdl Data type UNS16 Data range 0 ≤ log_ax_nr_spdl ≤ MAX(UNS16) Dimension ---- Default value 0 Remarks Parameterisation example: Assigning the dynamic data of Tool 5 wz[5].log_ax_nr_spdl 6 #Logical axis number of the spindle 2.1.13.3 Minimum rotation speed (P-TOOL-00013) P-TOOL-00013 Minimum rotation speed Description Minimum tool rotation speed. Parameter wz[i].vb_min Data type REAL64 Data range 0 ≤ vb_min ≤ P-TOOL-00014 [} 22] Unit 0.001°/s Default value 0 Remarks The minimum rotation speed is only limited for endless turning. Parameterisation example: Assigning the dynamic data of Tool 5 wz[5].vb_min 60000 #Minimum rotation speed 2.1.13.4 Maximum rotation speed (P-TOOL-00014) P-TOOL-00014 Maximum rotation speed Description Maximum tool rotation speed. Parameter wz[i].vb_max Data type REAL64 Data range 1 ≤ vb_max ≤ 2000000000 Unit 0.001°/s Default value 1 Remarks Parameterisation example: Assigning the dynamic data of Tool 5 wz[5].vb_max 3000000 #Maximum rotation speed 2.1.13.5 Maximum acceleration (P-TOOL-00015) P-TOOL-00015 Maximum acceleration Description Maximum tool acceleration. Parameter wz[i].a_max Data type REAL64 Data range 1 ≤ a_max ≤ 100000000 Unit °/s2 Default value 1 22 Version: 1.081 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Tool data
## Page 23

Description of elements Remarks Parameterisation example: Assigning the dynamic data of Tool 5 wz[5].a_max 3000 #Maximum acceleration 2.1.13.6 Numerator gear ratio of a tool (P-TOOL-00016) P-TOOL-00016 Gear ratio of a tool (numerator) Description If the tool has a gear, this parameter specifies the gear ratio. A gear change occurs in the position controller after the tool is changed. The gear ratio need not then be considered when programming the tool rotary speed. Parameter wz[i].gear_ratio_num Data type SGN32 Data range 0 ≤ gear_ratio_num ≤ MAX(SGN32) Dimension ---- Default value 0 Remarks It is only permitted to change a tool with a gear speed when the spindle is at standstill (P-TOOL-00012 [} 21]) If the numerator or the denominator is assigned the value 0, no gear change takes place. 2.1.13.7 Denominator gear ratio of tool (P-TOOL-00017) P-TOOL-00017 Gear ratio of a tool (denominator) Description If the tool has a gear, this parameter specifies the gear ratio. A gear change occurs in the position controller after the tool is changed. The gear ratio need not then be considered when programming the tool rotary speed. Parameter wz[i].gear_ratio_denom Data type SGN32 Data range 0 ≤ gear_ratio_denom ≤ MAX(SGN32) Dimension ---- Default value 0 Remarks It is only permitted to change a tool with a gear speed when the spindle is at standstill (P-TOOL-00012 [} 21]) If the numerator or the denominator is assigned the value 0, no gear change takes place. 2.1.13.8 Reversal of rotation direction by gear (P-TOOL-00018) P-TOOL-00018 Reversal of rotation direction by gear Description If the direction of rotation is reversed by the tool gear, a change in the rotation direction can be defined in the position controller by setting this parameter to the value TRUE. This is executed as soon as a tool change is carried out. Parameter wz[i].gear_inv_direction Data type BOOLEAN Data range 0/1 Dimension ---- Default value 0 Remarks TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 1.081 23 Tool data
## Page 24

Description of elements 2.1.13.9 Reversal of rotation direction without spindle standstill (P-TOOL-00019) P-TOOL-00019 Reversal of rotation direction without spindle standstill Description When changing a tool with a tool gear which changes the direction of rotation (see P-TOOL-00018 [} 23]), the spindle must be at standstill, otherwise the CNC generates the error message P-ERR-60290. If this parameter is assigned the value TRUE, a change in tool rotation direction is only evaluated when a programmed change in spindle direction takes place (M03/ M04 or M04/M03). In this case, the spindle does not stop. Example: This is practical for a machine with several tools rotating at the same time. Parameter wz[i].gear_inv_direction_no_stop Data type BOOLEAN Data range 0/1 Dimension ---- Default value 0 Remarks Only use this parameter if no physical tool change is linked to the D/T word (e.g. several drills/milling cutters on one machine). 24 Version: 1.081 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Tool data
## Page 25

Description of elements 2.1.14 Data for grinding applications The following parameters are provided for grinding machining and the associated consideration and monitoring of tool wear (e.g. grinding disc). 2.1.14.1 Wear constant (P-TOOL-00030) P-TOOL-00030 Wear constant Description The wear constant is used to calculate continuous tool wear. Alternatively, it can also be defined in the NC program (#OTC […]. Parameter wz[i].grinding_wear_const Data type REAL64 Data range 0 ≤ grinding_wear_const Dimension 0.1µm/m Default value 0 Remarks The wear constant should contain relatively small values. There is no special dynamic consideration based on the actual wear values. 2.1.14.2 Maximum discrete infeed (P-TOOL-00031) P-TOOL-00031 Maximum discrete infeed Description The maximum discrete infeed defines the greatest relative change which is assignable by the PLC. Parameter wz[i].grinding_max_infeed Data type REAL64 Data range MIN(SGN32) ≤ grinding_max_infeed ≤ MAX(SGN32) Dimension 0.1µm Default value 0 Remarks TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 1.081 25 Tool data
## Page 26

Description of elements 2.1.14.3 Grinding disc tilt angle (P-TOOL-00138) P-TOOL-00138 Grinding disc tilt angle Description The parameter defines the angle between the centre line of the grinding disc and the 3rd main axis for tilted grinding discs. Parameter wz[i].grinding_disc_tilt_angle Data type REAL64 Data range -45°≤ grinding_tilt_angle ≤ 45° Dimension 0.0001° Default value 0 Remarks Grinding disc tilt angle 2.1.15 Data for visualisation and collision monitoring Tools and tool heads are displayed as graphical objects as part of machining simulation. An additional member of the kinematic chain, what is known as a linkpoint, is appended to the connected graphical tool objects for the purpose of visualisation. The specific data required is transferred in the tool data at tool change and sent to the machining simulation by appropriate commands (#SCENE ..., V. G. WZ_AKT. LINKPOINT...@@[PROG]) in the NC program. 26 Version: 1.081 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Tool data
## Page 27

Description of elements The availability of this function depends on the configuration and the scope of the version. 2.1.15.1 Linkpoint data (wz[i].linkpoint_data.*) Linkpoint data (LINKPOINT) of the kinematic chain to which graphical tool objects are attached is entered in this structure. 2.1.15.1.1 Linkpoint name (P-TOOL-00100) P-TOOL-00100 Name of linkpoint Description Name of the new linkpoint of the kinematic chain. Parameter wz[i].linkpoint_data.name Data type STRING Data range Maximum 40 characters (application-specific) Unit ---- Default value - Remarks 2.1.15.1.2 Mountpoint (P-TOOL-00101) P-TOOL-00101 Mountpoint Description Name of the existing node of the kinematic chain to which the new node is attached. Parameter wz[i].linkpoint_data.mountpoint Data type STRING Data range Maximum 40 characters (application-specific) Dimension ---- Default value - Remarks 2.1.15.1.3 Translation of main axes (P-TOOL-00102) P-TOOL-00102 Translation of main axes Description Shift of the link point in the main axes relative to the mountpoint. Parameter wz[i].linkpoint_data.translation[k] where k=0, 1, 2 (application-specific) Data type SGN32 Data range MIN(SGN32) < translation[k] < MAX(SGN32) Dimension 0.1µm or 0.0001 inch Default value 0 Remarks 2.1.15.1.4 Rotation of main axes (P-TOOL-00103) P-TOOL-00103 Rotation of main axes Description Eulerian angle by means of which current rotation of the link point is specified with respect to the mountpoint. Parameter wz[i].linkpoint_data.rotation[k] where k=0, 1, 2 (application-specific) Data type SGN32 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 1.081 27 Tool data
## Page 28

Description of elements Data range -360° < rotation[k] < 360° Dimension 0.001° Default value 0 Remarks 2.1.15.1.5 Axis number (P-TOOL-00104) P-TOOL-00104 Axis number Description Logical axis number that leads to movement of the new linkpoint. Parameter wz[i].linkpoint_data.ax_nr Data type UNS16 Data range 0 < ax_nr ≤ MAX(UNS16) Dimension ---- Default value 0 Remarks 2.1.15.1.6 Translation/rotation of linkpoint (P-TOOL-00105) P-TOOL-00105 Translation/rotation of linkpoint Description Definition whether a movement of the axis leads to a translation in X / Y / Z or a rotation about X / Y / Z: 1-TRANS_X, 2-TRANS_Y, ..., 6-ROT_Z. Parameter wz[i].linkpoint_data.trans_rot Data type SGN32 Data range MIN(SGN32) < trans_rot < MAX(SGN32) Dimension ---- Default value 0 Remarks 2.1.15.1.7 Effect of the movement on the linkpoint (P-TOOL-00106) P-TOOL-00106 Effect of the movement on the linkpoint Description This parameter defines whether the programmed axis movements are to exert an inverting effect on the translation or rotation of the linkpoint. Parameter wz[i].linkpoint_data.inverse Data type BOOLEAN Data range 0: Axis movement has no inverting effect on the linkpoint 1: Axis movement has an inverting effect on the linkpoint Dimension ---- Default value 0 Remarks 2.1.15.1.8 Use of the linkpoint (P-TOOL-00107) P-TOOL-00107 Use of the linkpoint Description This parameter defines the method for handling the linkpoint during visualisation. Parameter wz[i].linkpoint_data.visible Data type BOOLEAN 28 Version: 1.081 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Tool data
## Page 29

Description of elements Data range 0: Linkpoints are only for internal calculation of the chain. This means that the linkpoint is transferred once when added but it is not cyclically displayed. 1: Movements of the linkpoint are cyclically displayed when logged (e.g. via Data Factory). Dimension ---- Default value 0 Remarks 2.1.15.1.9 Position of linkpoint after axis exchange (P-TOOL-00108) P-TOOL-00108 Position of linkpoint after axis exchange Description This parameter defines the method for handling a linkpoint attached to an axis during collision consideration if this axis is no longer available in the NC channel due to axis exchange. Parameter wz[i].linkpoint_data.fixed Data type BOOLEAN Data range 0: Collision monitoring for this linkpoint can no longer be reliably executed. 1: Linkpoint position remains constant after axis exchange. Collision monitoring can be executed. Dimension ---- Default value 0 Remarks 2.1.15.1.10 Maximum lever arm length (P-TOOL-00109) P-TOOL-00109 Maximum lever arm length Description Maximum lever arm length of the graphical objects attached to the (rotary) linkpoint. This is a segmentation aid for rotary axes. Parameter wz[i].linkpoint_data.arm_len Data type SGN32 Data range MIN(SGN32) < arm_len < MAX(SGN32) Dimension 0.1µm or 0.0001 inch Default value 0 Remarks 2.1.15.2 Object data (wz[i].gobject_data[j].*) In this structure, enter data of graphical objects which are linked to the linkpoint (LINKPOINT). Application- specific objects <j> can be defined. Structure name Index gobject_data[j] j = 0 to 4 (Maximum number of graphical elements: 5, application-specific) 2.1.15.2.1 Name Name of graphical object (P-TOOL-00120) P-TOOL-00120 Name of graphical object Description Name of the graphical object. Parameter wz[i].gobject_data[j].name Data type STRING Data range Maximum 40 characters (application-specific) Unit ---- TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 1.081 29 Tool data
## Page 30

Description of elements Default value - Remarks 2.1.15.2.2 Linkpoint name (P-TOOL-00121) P-TOOL-00121 Linkpoint name Description Name of the node (LINKPOINT) in the kinematics chain to which the graphical object is appended. Parameter wz[i].gobject_data[j].linkpoint Data type STRING Data range Maximum 40 characters (application-specific) Dimension ---- Default value - Remarks 2.1.15.2.3 Group name (P-TOOL-00122) P-TOOL-00122 Group name Description Name of the group (summarised graphical objects) which is additionally attached to the new graphical object. Parameter wz[i].gobject_data[j].group[k] where k=0, 1, 2, 3, 4 (application-specific) Data type STRING Data range Maximum 40 characters (application-specific) Dimension ---- Default value - Remarks 2.1.15.2.4 Translation of object (P-TOOL-00123) P-TOOL-00123 Translation of object Description Shift of the graphical object or of the group with respect to the linkpoint (LINKPOINT) if specified absolutely or with respect to the previous coordinates if specified as relative (P-TOOL-00125 [} 31]). Parameter wz[i].gobject_data[j].translation[k] where k=0, 1, 2 (application-specific) Data type SGN32 Data range MIN(SGN32) < translation[k] < MAX(SGN32) Dimension 0.1µm or 0.0001 inch Default value 0 Remarks 2.1.15.2.5 Rotation of object (P-TOOL-00124) P-TOOL-00124 Rotation of object Description Eulerian angle by which the static rotation of the graphical object is specified relative to the node point (LINKPOINT). Parameter wz[i].gobject_data[j].rotation[k] where k=0, 1, 2 (application-specific) Data type SGN32 Data range -360° < rotation[k] < 360° Dimension 0.001° Default value 0 30 Version: 1.081 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Tool data
## Page 31

Description of elements Remarks 2.1.15.2.6 Effect of shift and rotation (P-TOOL-00125) P-TOOL-00125 Effect of shift and rotation Description This parameter defines how the programmed shifts and rotations are to affect the current shifts and rotations. Parameter wz[i].gobject_data[j].relative Data type BOOLEAN Data range 0: The specified shift/rotation replaces all previously activated shifts/rotations. 1: Shift and rotation have an accumulative effect on the current shift or rotation. Dimension ---- Default value 0 Remarks 2.1.15.2.7 File containing description of object data (P-TOOL-00126) P-TOOL-00126 File containing description of object data Description Name of the file which additionally describes the graphical object (e.g. VRML file). Parameter wz[i].gobject_data[j].file Data type STRING Data range Maximum 40 characters (application-specific) Dimension ---- Default value - Remarks 2.1.15.2.8 Key name (P-TOOL-00127) P-TOOL-00127 Key name Description Key name of a key/value pair (value name: P-TOOL-00128 [} 31]) which additionally describes the graphical object. Parameter wz[i].gobject_data[j].key[k] where k=0, 1, 2, 3, 4 (number of key/value pairs per tool: 5, application-specific) Data type STRING Data range Maximum 40 characters (application-specific) Dimension ---- Default value - Remarks 2.1.15.2.9 Value name (P-TOOL-00128) P-TOOL-00128 Value name Description Value name of a key/value pair (key name: P-TOOL-00127 [} 31]) which additionally describes the graphical object. Parameter wz[i].gobject_data[j].value[k] where k=0, 1, 2, 3, 4 (number of key/value pairs per tool: 5, application-specific) Data type STRING Data range Maximum 40 characters (application-specific) Dimension ---- Default value - TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 1.081 31 Tool data
## Page 32

Description of elements Remarks 2.1.15.2.10 Information about a change (P-TOOL-00129) P-TOOL-00129 Information about a change Description This parameter informs about a data change by the external tool management system. The user decides whether to evaluate this information or not. Parameter wz[i].gobject_data[j].changed Data type BOOLEAN Data range 0: No change of data 1: Data change by the external tool management system. Dimension ---- Default value 0 Remarks 32 Version: 1.081 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Tool data
## Page 33

Description of elements 2.1.16 Path-specific tool data (wz[i].path[j].*) In systems with so-called multipath programming, path-specific tool data can be defined in the structure "wz[i].path[j]". Structure name Index path[j] j = 0 (Path 1), 1 (Path 2) 2.1.16.1 Tool radius (P-TOOL-00020) P-TOOL-00020 Tool radius Description Enter the tool radius for each path in this parameter Parameter wz[i].path[j].radius Data type SGN32 Data range MIN(SGN32) ≤ radius < MAX(SGN32) Dimension 0.1 µm or 0.0001 inch Default value 0 Remarks Parameterisation example: The tool radius of Tool 5 for Path 1 is to be 10 mm and for Path 2 10.5 mm. wz[5].path[0].radius 100000 # Tool radius 10 mm in Path 1 wz[5].path[1].radius 105000 # Tool radius 10.5 mm in Path 2 2.1.17 Settings for the free configuration of the tool number If the parameter P-TOOL-00140 [} 33] is set to 1, any numbers can be entered for the tool in the structure "wz[i].tool_id.*". Structure name Meaning tool_id.* Structure for any numbers for the basic, sister and variant tools 2.1.17.1 Enabling tool number assignment (P-TOOL-00140) P-TOOL-00140 Enabling tool number assignment Description The basic setting defines the tool number <i> by the index of the tool structure wz[<i>]. As a result, the structure size determines the maximum possible number of tools and their numbers. For example, if the structure wz[<i>] has 200 places, the tool number range is from 0 to 199. If P-TOOL-00140 is set to 1, any number can be entered in the structure wz[i].tool_id.* [} 33] independent of the index numbering for each tool. Parameter tool_data_with_id Data type BOOLEAN Data range 0: Determine the tool number by the index number 1: Any definition of the tool number from the tool ID Dimension ---- Default value 0 Remarks The index of wz[i] only determines the number of possible tools when the parameter P-TOOL-00140 is set. TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 1.081 33 Tool data
## Page 34

Description of elements 2.1.17.2 Defining the tool number(/tool ID (wz[i].tool_id.*) 2.1.17.2.1 Basic tool number (P-TOOL-00141) P-TOOL-00141 Basic tool number Description Enter the basic tool number in this parameter. Parameter wz[i].tool_id.basic Data type SGN32 Data range MIN(SGN32) < P-TOOL-00141< MAX(SGN32) Dimension ---- Default value 0 Remarks 2.1.17.2.2 Sister tool number (P-TOOL-00142) P-TOOL-00142 Sister tool number Description Enter the sister tool number in this parameter. Parameter wz[i].tool_id.sister Data type SGN32 Data range MIN(SGN32) < P-TOOL-00142 < MAX(SGN32) Dimension ---- Default value 0 Remarks 2.1.17.2.3 Variant tool number (P-TOOL-00143) P-TOOL-00143 Variant tool number Description Enter the variant tool number in this parameter. Parameter wz[i].tool_id.variant Data type SGN32 Data range MIN(SGN32) < P-TOOL-00143 < MAX(SGN32) Dimension ---- Default value 0 Remarks 2.1.17.2.4 Validity flag of the sister tool (P-TOOL-00144) P-TOOL-00144 Validity flag of the sister tool Description This parameter indicates whether the sister tool P-TOOL-00142 [} 34] is valid. Parameter wz[i].tool_id.sister_valid Data type BOOLEAN Data range 0 / 1 Dimension ---- Default value 0 Remarks 2.1.17.2.5 Validity flag of the variant tool (P-TOOL-00145) P-TOOL-00145 Validity flag of the variant tool 34 Version: 1.081 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Tool data
## Page 35

Description of elements Description This parameter indicates whether the variant tool is valid. It is specified by P- TOOL-00143 [} 34] Parameter wz[i].tool_id.variant_valid Data type BOOLEAN Data range 0 / 1 Dimension ---- Default value 0 Remarks TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 1.081 35 Tool data
## Page 36

Example of assigning tool data 3 Example of assigning tool data # *********************************************************************** # Tool data # *********************************************************************** # Important note : Behind the comment character ´#´ # a blank (space) must be added # CAUTION: Tool dimensions are expected in the unit # 0.1 µm or 0.0001 inch. # *********************************************************************** # ======================================================================= # Tool data for tool no. 5 # ======================================================================= Wz[5].laenge 6000 # Tool length wz[5].radius 54000 # Tool radius wz[5].gueltig 1 # Tool validity flag TRUE wz[5].mass_einheit 0 # Tool dimensional unit MM wz[5].ax_versatz[0] 205000 # Offset 1. Axis wz[5].ax_versatz[1] 206000 # Offset 2. Axis wz[5].ax_versatz[2] 307000 # Offset 3. Axis wz[5].ax_versatz[3] 408000 # Offset 4. Axis wz[5].log_ax_nr_spdl 6 # Logical axis number of spindle wz[5].vb_min 60000 # Minimum rotation speed wz[5].vb_max 3000000 # Maximum rotation speed wz[5].a_max 3000 # Maximum acceleration # ======================================================================= # Tool data for tool no. 8 # ======================================================================= Wz[8].laenge 8000 # Tool length wz[8].radius 45000 # Tool radius wz[8].gueltig 1 # Tool validity flag TRUE wz[8].mass_einheit 0 # Tool dimensional unit MM wz[8].ax_versatz[0] 225000 # Offset 1. Axis wz[8].ax_versatz[1] -336000 # Offset 2. Axis wz[8].ax_versatz[2] -457000 # Offset 3. Axis wz[8].ax_versatz[3] 578000 # Offset 4. Axis wz[8].kinematic.param[0] 1538000 # Tool offset 1: 153.8 mm wz[8].kinematic.param[1] 25000 # Tool offset 2: 2.5 mm wz[8].kinematic.param[2] 0 # Tool offset 3: 0 mm wz[8].kinematic.param[5] 900000 # Tool offset 6; 90 mm wz[8].tool_fixed 1 # Tool fixed wz[8].kin_id 6 # Kinematic 6 # ======================================================================= # Tool data for tool no. 15 # ======================================================================= wz[15].typ 1 # Turning tool wz[15].srk_lage 5 # Cutter position wz[15].laenge 8250 # Tool length wz[15].radius 200 # Tool radius wz[15].gueltig 1 # Tool validity flag TRUE wz[15].mass_einheit 0 # Tool dimensional unit MM wz[15].ax_versatz[0] 0 # Offset 1. Axis wz[15].ax_versatz[1] 0 # Offset 2. Axis wz[15].ax_versatz[2] 0 # Offset 3. Axis wz[15].ax_versatz[3] 0 # Offset 4. Axis 36 Version: 1.081 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Tool data
## Page 37

Example of assigning tool data # ======================================================================= # Tool data for tool no. 23 # ======================================================================= wz[23].laenge 5000 # Tool length wz[23].radius 10000 # Tool radius wz[23].gueltig 1 # Tool validity flag TRUE wz[23].mass_einheit 0 # Tool dimensional unit MM wz[23].ax_versatz[0] 565000 # Offset 1. Axis wz[23].ax_versatz[1] 236000 # Offset 2. Axis wz[23].ax_versatz[2] -233000 # Offset 3. Axis wz[23].ax_versatz[3] 566400 # Offset 4. Axis # # Example of GOBJECT description in internal tool data base # wz[1].gobject[0].name GO_NAME wz[1].gobject[0].linkpoint GO_LINKPOINT wz[1].gobject[0].group[0] GO_GROUP wz[1].gobject[0].group[1] GO_GROUP_1 wz[1].gobject[0].group[2] GO_GROUP_2 wz[1].gobject[0].group[3] GO_GROUP_3 wz[1].gobject[0].group[4] GO_GROUP_4 wz[1].gobject[0].translation[0] 10000 # integer in [0.1 um] wz[1].gobject[0].translation[1] 20000 wz[1].gobject[0].translation[2] 30000 wz[1].gobject[0].rotation[0] 300000 # integer in [0.0001 degree] wz[1].gobject[0].rotation[1] 600000 wz[1].gobject[0].rotation[2] 900000 wz[1].gobject[0].relative 1 wz[1].gobject[0].changed 1 wz[1].gobject[0].file GO_FILE wz[1].gobject[0].key[0] GO_KEY wz[1].gobject[0].key[1] GO_KEY_1 wz[1].gobject[0].key[2] GO_KEY_2 wz[1].gobject[0].key[3] GO_KEY_3 wz[1].gobject[0].key[4] GO_KEY_4 wz[1].gobject[0].value[0] GO_VALUE wz[1].gobject[0].value[1] GO_VALUE_1 wz[1].gobject[0].value[2] GO_VALUE_2 wz[1].gobject[0].value[3] GO_VALUE_3 wz[1].gobject[0].value[4] GO_VALUE_4 # wz[1].gobject[1].name GO_1_NAME wz[1].gobject[1].file GO_1_FILE : wz[1].gobject[2].name GO_2_NAME wz[1].gobject[2].file GO_2_FILE : wz[1].gobject[3].name GO_3_NAME wz[1].gobject[3].file GO_3_FILE : wz[1].gobject[4].name GO_4_NAME wz[1].gobject[4].file GO_4_FILE # # Example of LINKPOINT description in internal tool data base # wz[1].linkpoint.name LP_NAME wz[1].linkpoint.mountpoint LP_MOUNTPOINT wz[1].linkpoint.translation[0] 1 wz[1].linkpoint.translation[1] 2 wz[1].linkpoint.translation[2] 3 wz[1].linkpoint.rotation[0] 30 wz[1].linkpoint.rotation[1] 60 wz[1].linkpoint.rotation[2] 90 wz[1].linkpoint.ax_nr 1 wz[1].linkpoint.trans_rot 1 wz[1].linkpoint.inverse 0 wz[1].linkpoint.visible 1 wz[1].linkpoint.fixed 0 wz[1].linkpoint.arm_len 1234 # End TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 1.081 37 Tool data
## Page 38

Appendix 4 Appendix 4.1 Discontinued parameters 4.1.1 Name of the assigned partial kinematic (P-TOOL-00148) P-TOOL-00148 Name of the assigned partial kinematic Description This parameter notes the name of the assigned partial kinematic. The name specified here is compared with the names of the partial kinematics (P- CHAN-00443) when coupling kinematics are used and a search is made for the corresponding partial kinematic. The parameter data configured in this tool is then transferred to the correct partial kinematic. Parameter wz[i].kin_name Data type STRING Data range Dimension ---- Default value * Remarks Parameterisation example: wz[1].hin_name ROBOT * Note: The default value of variables is a blank string. The parameter is available as of V3.1.3080 38 Version: 1.081 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Tool data
## Page 39

Support and Service 5 Support and Service Beckhoff and their partners around the world offer comprehensive support and service, making available fast and competent assistance with all questions related to Beckhoff products and system solutions. Download finder Our download finder contains all the files that we offer you for downloading. You will find application reports, technical documentation, technical drawings, configuration files and much more. The downloads are available in various formats. Beckhoff's branch offices and representatives Please contact your Beckhoff branch office or representative for local support and service on Beckhoff products! The addresses of Beckhoff's branch offices and representatives round the world can be found on our internet page: www.beckhoff.com You will also find further documentation for Beckhoff components there. Beckhoff Support Support offers you comprehensive technical assistance, helping you not only with the application of individual Beckhoff products, but also with other, wide-ranging services: • support • design, programming and commissioning of complex automation systems • and extensive training program for Beckhoff system components Hotline: +49 5246 963-157 e-mail: support@beckhoff.com Beckhoff Service The Beckhoff Service Center supports you in all matters of after-sales service: • on-site service • repair service • spare parts service • hotline service Hotline: +49 5246 963-460 e-mail: service@beckhoff.com Beckhoff Headquarters Beckhoff Automation Gmb H & Co. KG Huelshorstweg 20 33415 Verl Germany Phone: +49 5246 963-0 e-mail: info@beckhoff.com web: www.beckhoff.com TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 1.081 39 Tool data
## Page 40

Index Index P P-TOOL-00001 14 P-TOOL-00002 14 P-TOOL-00003 16 P-TOOL-00004 16 P-TOOL-00005 17 P-TOOL-00006 18 P-TOOL-00007 18 P-TOOL-00008 19 P-TOOL-00009 19 P-TOOL-00010 19 P-TOOL-00011 20 P-TOOL-00012 21 P-TOOL-00013 22 P-TOOL-00014 22 P-TOOL-00015 22 P-TOOL-00016 23 P-TOOL-00017 23 P-TOOL-00018 23 P-TOOL-00019 24 P-TOOL-00020 33 P-TOOL-00030 25 P-TOOL-00031 25 P-TOOL-00100 27 P-TOOL-00101 27 P-TOOL-00102 27 P-TOOL-00103 27 P-TOOL-00104 28 P-TOOL-00105 28 P-TOOL-00106 28 P-TOOL-00107 28 P-TOOL-00108 29 P-TOOL-00109 29 P-TOOL-00120 29 P-TOOL-00121 30 P-TOOL-00122 30 P-TOOL-00123 30 P-TOOL-00124 30 P-TOOL-00125 31 P-TOOL-00126 31 P-TOOL-00127 31 P-TOOL-00128 31 P-TOOL-00129 32 P-TOOL-00138 26 P-TOOL-00140 33 P-TOOL-00141 34 P-TOOL-00142 34 P-TOOL-00143 34 P-TOOL-00144 34 P-TOOL-00145 34 P-TOOL-00146 16 P-TOOL-00147 21 P-TOOL-00148 38 P-TOOL-00149 14 40 Version: 1.081 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Tool data
## Page 42

More Information: www.beckhoff.com/TF5200 Beckhoff Automation Gmb H & Co. KG Hülshorstweg 20 33415 Verl Germany Phone: +49 5246 9630 info@beckhoff.com www.beckhoff.com
