---
title: "TF5200_dynamic_param_en"
product: "TF5200"
category: "Motion_Control"
tags: ["NC"]
language: "EN"
document_type: "Manual"
version: "1.06"
source_pdf: "https://download.beckhoff.com/download/Document/automation/twincat3/TF5200_dynamic_param_en.pdf"
release_date: "2025-06-06"
---
Functional description | EN TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Dynamic characteristics 6/6/2025 | Version: 1.06
## Page 3

Notes on the documentation Notes on the documentation This description is only intended for the use of trained specialists in control and automation engineering who are familiar with the applicable national standards. It is essential that the documentation and the following notes and explanations are followed when installing and commissioning the components. It is the duty of the technical personnel to use the documentation published at the respective time of each installation and commissioning. The responsible staff must ensure that the application or use of the products described satisfy all the requirements for safety, including all the relevant laws, regulations, guidelines and standards. Disclaimer The documentation has been prepared with care. The products described are, however, constantly under development. We reserve the right to revise and change the documentation at any time and without prior announcement. No claims for the modification of products that have already been supplied may be made on the basis of the data, diagrams and descriptions in this documentation. Trademarks Beckhoff®, Twin CAT®, Twin CAT/BSD®, TC/BSD®, Ether CAT®, Ether CAT G®, Ether CAT G10®, Ether CAT P®, Safety over Ether CAT®, Twin SAFE®, XFC®, XTS® and XPlanar® are registered trademarks of and licensed by Beckhoff Automation Gmb H. Other designations used in this publication may be trademarks whose use by third parties for their own purposes could violate the rights of the owners. Patent Pending The Ether CAT technology is patent protected, in particular by the following applications and patents: EP1590927, EP1789857, EP1456722, EP2137893, DE102015105702 with corresponding applications or registrations in various other countries. Ether CAT® is registered trademark and patented technology, licensed by Beckhoff Automation Gmb H, Germany Copyright © Beckhoff Automation Gmb H & Co. KG, Germany. The reproduction, distribution and utilisation of this document as well as the communication of its contents to others without express authorisation are prohibited. Offenders will be held liable for the payment of damages. All rights reserved in the event of the grant of a patent, utility model or design. TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 1.06 3 Dynamic characteristics
## Page 4

General and safety instructions General and safety instructions Icons used and their meanings This documentation uses the following icons next to the safety instruction and the associated text. Please read the (safety) instructions carefully and comply with them at all times. Icons in explanatory text 1. Indicates an action. ð Indicates an action statement. DANGER Acute danger to life! If you fail to comply with the safety instruction next to this icon, there is immediate danger to human life and health. CAUTION Personal injury and damage to machines! If you fail to comply with the safety instruction next to this icon, it may result in personal injury or damage to machines. NOTICE Restriction or error This icon describes restrictions or warns of errors. Tips and other notes This icon indicates information to assist in general understanding or to provide additional informa- tion. General example Example that clarifies the text. NC programming example Programming example (complete NC program or program sequence) of the described function or NC com- mand. Specific version information Optional or restricted function. The availability of this function depends on the configuration and the scope of the version. 4 Version: 1.06 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Dynamic characteristics
## Page 5

Table of contents Table of contents Notes on the documentation.................................................................................................................... 3 General and safety instructions.............................................................................................................. 4 1 Overview.................................................................................................................................................... 8 2 Description................................................................................................................................................ 9 2.1 General dynamics characteristics..................................................................................................... 9 2.1.1 Limits.................................................................................................................................. 9 2.1.2 Further limits...................................................................................................................... 9 2.2 Acceleration profiles........................................................................................................................ 11 2.2.1 Parameterisation.............................................................................................................. 13 2.2.2 Step-shaped acceleration profile...................................................................................... 14 2.2.3 Jerk-limited default acceleration profile............................................................................ 16 2.2.4 Jerk-limited HSC acceleration profile............................................................................... 20 2.3 Jerk limitation and path................................................................................................................... 23 2.3.1 Path profile with non-tangential continuous block limits................................................... 23 2.3.2 Path profile with tangential continuous block transitions.................................................. 26 2.3.3 Jerk limitation within the path........................................................................................... 34 2.4 Emergency stop acceleration.......................................................................................................... 35 2.5 Selecting/modifying the acceleration profile.................................................................................... 36 2.5.1 Profile type and weighting effect, parameterising channel parameters............................ 36 2.5.2 Path-specific dynamic limit, parameterising channel parameters.................................... 37 2.6 Dynamic limits for manual mode..................................................................................................... 37 2.6.1 Parameterising the axis parameters G200....................................................................... 37 2.6.2 Parameterising the axis parameters G201....................................................................... 39 2.6.3 Parameterising channel parameters................................................................................ 40 2.7 Parameters for homing.................................................................................................................... 41 2.8 Parameters for reduced velocity..................................................................................................... 42 2.9 Control flags.................................................................................................................................... 43 3 Parameterisation..................................................................................................................................... 44 3.1 Overview......................................................................................................................................... 44 3.1.1 Channel parameters......................................................................................................... 44 3.1.2 Axis parameters............................................................................................................... 45 3.2 Description...................................................................................................................................... 47 3.2.1 Channel parameters......................................................................................................... 47 3.2.2 Axis parameters............................................................................................................... 52 3.3 Channel list example....................................................................................................................... 65 3.4 Axis list example............................................................................................................................. 66 4 Support and Service............................................................................................................................... 67 Index......................................................................................................................................................... 68 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 5 Dynamic characteristics
## Page 6

Table of contents 6 Version: TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Dynamic characteristics
## Page 7

List of figures List of figures Fig. 1 Reduced maximum velocity......................................................................................................... 10 Fig. 2 Path acceleration profiles............................................................................................................. 12 Fig. 3 Parameters of the linear velocity profile....................................................................................... 14 Fig. 4 Parameters for jerk-limited acceleration profile............................................................................ 17 Fig. 5 Parameters for jerk limitation in rapid traverse (G00).................................................................. 19 Fig. 6 Parameters with HSC jerk limitation and feed block.................................................................... 21 Fig. 7 Non-tangential continuous linear block transition......................................................................... 24 Fig. 8 Influence of jerk limitation on block transition velocity.................................................................. 25 Fig. 9 Tangential continuous block transition from linear block to circular block.................................... 27 Fig. 10 Velocity profile on X and Y axes.................................................................................................. 27 Fig. 11 Acceleration profile on X and Y axes........................................................................................... 27 Fig. 12 Jerk profile on X and Y axes........................................................................................................ 28 Fig. 13 Tangential continuous block transition from circular block to circular block................................. 28 Fig. 14 Velocity profile on X and Y axes.................................................................................................. 28 Fig. 15 Acceleration profile on X and Y axes........................................................................................... 29 Fig. 16 Jerk profile on X and Y axes........................................................................................................ 29 Fig. 17 Tangential continuous block transition from circular block to circular block with radius change.. 29 Fig. 18 Velocity profile on X and Y axes.................................................................................................. 30 Fig. 19 Acceleration profile on X and Y axes........................................................................................... 30 Fig. 20 Jerk profile on X and Y axes........................................................................................................ 30 Fig. 21 Path velocity profile...................................................................................................................... 31 Fig. 22 without jerk limitation at block transition....................................................................................... 31 Fig. 23 with jerk limitation at block transition............................................................................................ 32 Fig. 24 Path velocity due to jerk limitation with transition polynomial....................................................... 33 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 1.06 7 Dynamic characteristics
## Page 8

Overview 1 Overview Task The CNC controller calculates a path setpoint profile so that the programmed path contour can be travelled at a specific velocity. The individual NC axes are accelerated and decelerated at specified acceleration values. Which dynamic settings on a machine produce the best results with regard to machining time and path accuracy depends on the following influences, among others: • Load capacity of the machine construction • Machine vibration response • Drive motor torque response • Drive controller power limit This function description describes the parameter definitions of the dynamic response of motion control. When calculating the profile, the CNC takes into account every machine axis participating in the motion. The path velocity may have to be reduced so as to maintain the axis-specific velocity and acceleration values. The machine axis with the poorest dynamics and the largest relative path distance ultimately defines the maximum possible path velocity. Effectiveness The axis-specific dynamic characteristics are parameters that apply to a single machine axis. If several NC axes interact in the path compound (path mode), the axis with the weakest dynamics and the largest relative path distance defines the overall path dynamics. Parameterisation Dynamic variables are parameterised for every NC axis in the axis parameter list [AXIS]. The default type of the acceleration profile with the associated weighting effect are parameterised in the channel-specific parameter list [CHAN]. The specific additional dynamic parameters for spindle axes, for example the characteristic profile-controlled acceleration, are described in [FCT-S1]. Mandatory note on references to other documents For the sake of clarity, links to other documents and parameters are abbreviated, e.g. [PROG] for the Programming Manual or P-AXIS-00001 for an axis parameter. For technical reasons, these links only function in the Online Help (HTML5, CHM) but not in pdf files since pdfs do not support cross-linking. 8 Version: 1.06 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Dynamic characteristics
## Page 9

Description 2 Description 2.1 General dynamics characteristics 2.1.1 Limits The parameters listed below describe dynamic limits of an NC axis. They act as upper or lower limits for further parameters which can also be changed in the NC program to some extent. Therefore, when the acceleration and ramp time values described in the following sections are weighted with the G functions G130 - G133 PROG, the minimum permissible ramp time cannot be undershot and the maximum permissible acceleration cannot be overshot. • Maximum permissible axis acceleration (P-AXIS-00008) • Minimum permissible ramp time (P-AXIS-00201) • Maximum permissible axis velocity (P-AXIS-00212) Note the following with regard to the maximum axis velocity P-AXIS-00212: • For G01 or G00 motions, this value represents the upper limit that can be reached by programming the F word or G00. • With translatory or rotary axes (no spindles), it can be assumed that the resolution limits of the measuring system are taken into account in the setting. • With spindle axes, the limit velocity for the measurement system P-AXIS-00220 is set as the maximum axis velocity. 2.1.2 Further limits Maximum permissible velocity override in the channel P-CHAN-00056 or axis P-AXIS-00109 The parameter P-CHAN-00056 is used to limit the channel-specific velocity override. This value is active for path motions (axes of a channel in the path compound). The parameter P-AXIS-00109 is used to limit the axis-specific velocity override (independent axes). Rapid mode velocity P-AXIS-00209 The parameter P-AXIS-00209 defines the velocity for positioning in rapid traverse (G00). With G00 motions, the CNC calculates a rapid traverse velocity regardless of the programmed F word based on the axis-specific rapid traverse velocities. This rapid traverse velocity is used with G00 programming. Reduced velocity with G01, G02, G03 P-AXIS-00214 and G00 P-AXIS-00155 The CNC takes these maximum velocity values into account after activation by a PLC control signal. This permits motion at reduced velocity, for example when guard doors are open. TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 1.06 9 Dynamic characteristics
## Page 10

Description Fig. 1: Reduced maximum velocity Reduced velocity in safety zone P-AXIS-00030 The CNC takes this maximum velocity value into account after activation by a PLC control signal whenever the axis is within a specific position range. This permits motion at reduced velocity, for example within a safety zone. 10 Version: 1.06 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Dynamic characteristics
## Page 11

Description 2.2 Acceleration profiles Selecting the acceleration profile defines the velocity on the programmed path, provided • the specified permissible velocities, • the accelerations and • the set jerk are maintained. The following modes are available : • Step-shaped acceleration profile with restriction of acceleration without limiting the jerk • Trapezoidal acceleration profile • Sine-square acceleration profile TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 1.06 11 Dynamic characteristics
## Page 12

Description Depending on the acceleration profile selected, the acceleration is set as shown in the acceleration profile below: Fig. 2: Path acceleration profiles 12 Version: 1.06 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Dynamic characteristics
## Page 13

Description The NC controller calculates the path distance to be output in the current cycle for the programmed path based on distance data, velocity inputs in the NC program and the dynamic variables of the machine axes. Planning the resulting velocity profile extends over several blocks and ensures that stopping is possible at all times without overshooting the permissible dynamic limits (look ahead). 2.2.1 Parameterisation Selecting the default acceleration profile In the channel parameter lists [CHAN] select the default acceleration profile with the parameter P- CHAN-00071. The default acceleration profile is active if no other profile is selected within the NC program. Parameterisation example 1 Excerpt from the channel parameter list … prog_start.slope.profile 0 … The acceleration profile can be changed as required for this channel in the NC program by means of the modal command #SLOPE[TYPE=...] [PROG]. Parameterisation example 2 Excerpt from the NC program … N20 #SLOPE[TYPE=TRAPEZ] N30 G01 G90 X10 Y10 F5000 Motion blocks after block number N20 are moved with a trapezoidal acceleration profile. Independent axes For independent axes, the acceleration profile can be parameterised in the NC program by means of the SLOPE_TYPE keyword within the axis-specific programming command [PROG//Independent axes]. TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 1.06 13 Dynamic characteristics
## Page 14

Description 2.2.2 Step-shaped acceleration profile Description and properties Therefore, select this profile to obtain the shortest possible positioning times. This profile is used very frequently and has a stepped acceleration profile. This results in dynamic motion segments for individual axes which are controlled at a linear velocity rise/drop over time. At the start of the block, acceleration takes place up to the programmed feed rate, followed by deceleration at the maximum permissible acceleration towards the end of the block. Returns occur during axis acceleration ramp-up and deceleration. This is due to the stepped acceleration profile. This response can have a negative impact on machine constructions that are subject to critical vibrations. However, the great advantage lies in the optimum distance/time response, i.e. the time needed for a path motion segment is the shortest compared to other acceleration profiles. Fig. 3: Parameters of the linear velocity profile 14 Version: 1.06 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Dynamic characteristics
## Page 15

Description Parameterisation During both start-up and deceleration, the acceleration profiles each consist of 2 steps which can be parameterised with 2 different acceleration values. • Step 1 is accelerated and decelerated at the acceleration value of P-AXIS-00011. • Step 2 is accelerated and decelerated at the acceleration value of P-AXIS-00012. The parameter P-AXIS-00221 sets the changeover velocity from one acceleration value to the other. The linear velocity profile and the stepped acceleration profile of a typical parameterisation variant are depicted in the above figure “Parameters of the linear velocity profile”. Of course, another possible setting is where acceleration value 1 is less than acceleration value 2. Parameterisation for rapid traverse (G00) Another parameter set is available for dynamic motion segments with active rapid traverse (G00). • The acceleration value P-AXIS-00005 is active in step 1. • The acceleration value P-AXIS-00006 is active in step 2. The changeover velocity can be defined by the parameter P-AXIS-00211 in rapid traverse. Parameterisation for feedhold The acceleration value for feedhold to decelerate the axis to standstill is set by the parameter P-AXIS-00024. The influence of channel parameter P-CHAN-00097 must be taken into account. TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 1.06 15 Dynamic characteristics
## Page 16

Description 2.2.3 Jerk-limited default acceleration profile Description and properties Both for • axes in the path group and for • independent axes a jerk-limited acceleration can be selected with a trapezoidal or sine-square profile. Parameterisation is identical and axis-specific for both profiles. As opposed to the trapezoidal profile, the sine-square profile permits softer acceleration and deceleration. With jerk-limited acceleration, the path motion is controlled so that axis-specific accelerations do not suffer any abrupt changes. For HSC contour machining, a special jerk-limited slope can be selected to optimise block global acceleration. These profiles must be used with machine constructions that are subject to critical vibrations. The ramp times for building up and reducing acceleration should only be set as high as necessary and as low possible because these parameters have a considerable influence on positioning times. The jerk-limited acceleration profile can be displayed in 7 segments (see figure below “Parameters with jerk- limited acceleration profile”). I Velocity increase at increasing acceleration to a maximum acceleration value within a specified time. II Velocity increase at constant acceleration. III Velocity increase at decreasing acceleration down to the acceleration value 0 within a specified time. IV Phase at constant velocity, acceleration 0 V Velocity decrease at increasing deceleration to a maximum deceleration value within a specified time. VI Velocity decrease at constant deceleration. VII Velocity decrease at decreasing deceleration down to the deceleration value 0 within a specified time. The parameters in segments I, III, V and VII determine the axis jerk caused by the acceleration profile. Advantages The advantage of jerk-limited acceleration profiles are: • Better use of available machine dynamics (e.g. positioning in rapid traverse) • Reduced wear and tear on mechanical systems by avoiding impacts • Low excitation of vibrations • Improved possibility of parameterising path enhancement (e.g. feedforward control) 16 Version: 1.06 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Dynamic characteristics
## Page 17

Description Fig. 4: Parameters for jerk-limited acceleration profile TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 1.06 17 Dynamic characteristics
## Page 18

Description Parametrisation The axis-specific acceleration ramps of jerk-limited acceleration profiles are defined by specifying a maximum acceleration and a maximum ramp time. The figure above shows the profiles of velocity, acceleration and jerk with corresponding parameters. An individual acceleration ramp can be set for each acceleration and deceleration phase using the parameters listed. Maximum acceleration at increasing velocity: P-AXIS-00001 Maximum deceleration at decreasing velocity: P-AXIS-00002 Maximum ramp time P-AXIS-00195 P-AXIS-00196 P-AXIS-00197 P-AXIS-00198 When parameterising ramp time, take into account the fact that the jerk-limited acceleration profile degrades into a stepped acceleration profile at ramp times less than the CNC cycle time. Parameterisation for rapid traverse (G00) The jerk-limited acceleration profile with steeper acceleration ramps can be defined for rapid traverse motions (G00). All acceleration ramps (segments: I, III, V and VII) are parameterised at maximum acceleration P-AXIS-00004 and maximum ramp time P-AXIS-00200 (see figure below). 18 Version: 1.06 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Dynamic characteristics
## Page 19

Description Fig. 5: Parameters for jerk limitation in rapid traverse (G00) Parameterisation for feedhold Acceleration ramps (segments I, III, V and VII) are parameterised at maximum acceleration P-AXIS-00053 and maximum ramp time P-AXIS-00081 for rapid deceleration on feed stop (feedhold). The influence of the channel parameter P-CHAN-00097 must be considered. TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 1.06 19 Dynamic characteristics
## Page 20

Description 2.2.4 Jerk-limited HSC acceleration profile Description and properties This profile can be activated for path motions and offers advantages for short blocks when acceleration must be built up and decreased over a relatively large number of blocks. Parameterisation of acceleration ramps with feed blocks is identical to default jerk-limited profiles. However, the parameterisation of different acceleration and deceleration values is less practical for HSC machining. Setting profile parameters for a rapid traverse block and feedhold also correspond to a default jerk-limited profile. There are differences in the effectiveness of ramp time parameters for feed blocks. The maximum of the following parameters is used as ramp time: • P-AXIS-00195 • P-AXIS-00196 • P-AXIS-00197 • P-AXIS-00198 Build-up and decrease times for acceleration and deceleration are then identical. 20 Version: 1.06 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Dynamic characteristics
## Page 21

Description Fig. 6: Parameters with HSC jerk limitation and feed block Determining ramp time When the maximum permissible acceleration and the maximum permissible jerk are specified, the ramp time can be determined using the following equation: TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 1.06 21 Dynamic characteristics
## Page 22

Description where tr: ramp time, j: permissible jerk, a: permissible acceleration Determining ramp time a: 1000 mm/s2, j: 20m/s3 getriebe[0].slope_profil.a_grenz 1000 getriebe[0].slope_profil.tr_grenz 50000 In many cases, there are no jerk values available for a machine. In this case, the ramp times must be increased empirically starting from default parameter values until the axis can move without exciting vibrations. The ramp times should be set as small as possible and only as large as necessary since they influence positioning times. 22 Version: 1.06 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Dynamic characteristics
## Page 23

Description 2.3 Jerk limitation and path The parameters described below are relevant only in conjunction with jerk-limited acceleration pro- files. 2.3.1 Path profile with non-tangential continuous block limits Description Axis acceleration jerks occur at non-tangential continuous block transitions of paths, e.g. linear blocks with a prismatic workpiece. This results in very pronounced axis jerks if the path velocity is not reduced to 0 at the block transition. Nevertheless, the controller ensures that acceleration jerks remain below the maximum acceleration of the affected axes. This response is shown below by the example of a 45° knee angle in the velocity, acceleration and jerk profiles between two linear axes. TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 1.06 23 Dynamic characteristics
## Page 24

Description ... ... x y N10 N20 N10 N20 t t Fig. 7: Non-tangential continuous linear block transition Parameterisation Parameter P-AXIS-00013 weights the permissible acceleration at the block transition. The jerk limit is activated by the value 0. The weighting of the permissible acceleration is applied with a factor of cycle/ramp time. This maintains values within the permissible axis jerk. Result is a very low speed at the motion block transition. Set this parameter high if higher velocities are required for motions with higher axis jerk at block transitions. At a value of 1000 (upper limit), maximum acceleration is maintained at the block transition and the jerk exceeds the set limits. atrans = a * (P-AXIS-00013) / 1000. jtrans = atrans /tzykl. A value > 0 may be practical if, for technological reasons, a drop in path velocity is not desirable at slightly discontinuous block transitions depending on the set acceleration. A value < 1000 may be practical when the machine is highly prone to critical vibrations. The figure below illustrates the influence of jerk limitation when P-AXIS-00013 = 0 on the block transition velocity between two non-tangential continuous motion blocks and different knee angles. 24 Version: 1.06 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Dynamic characteristics
## Page 25

Description Fig. 8: Influence of jerk limitation on block transition velocity TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 1.06 25 Dynamic characteristics
## Page 26

Description Parameterisation example Excerpt from the axis parameter list: with jerk limitation getriebe[0].dynamik.a_trans_weight 0 without jerk limitation getriebe[0].dynamik.a_trans_weight 1000 2.3.2 Path profile with tangential continuous block transitions Description A jerk in axis acceleration occurs • at linear to circular block transitions and vice versa, • circular/circular paths with a change in radius and • a change in direction of rotation with tangential continuous block transitions. This is linked to a relatively large axis jerk even if the path velocity is constant. Below are several examples showing velocity, acceleration and jerk in the axes: 26 Version: 1.06 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Dynamic characteristics
## Page 27

Description Block transition linear block -> circular block y N30 N20 r x 0 N10 v B Fig. 9: Tangential continuous block transition from linear block to circular block . . x y N10 N20 N30 N10 N20 N30 t t Fig. 10: Velocity profile on X and Y axes .. .. x y N10 N20 N30 N10 N20 N30 t t Fig. 11: Acceleration profile on X and Y axes TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 1.06 27 Dynamic characteristics
## Page 28

Description ... ... x y N10 N20 N30 N10 N20 N30 t t Fig. 12: Jerk profile on X and Y axes 2. Block transition circular block -> circular block with change in direction of rotation G03 -> G02 y N20 N10 r1 x v B Fig. 13: Tangential continuous block transition from circular block to circular block . . x y N10 N20 N10 N20 t t Fig. 14: Velocity profile on X and Y axes 28 Version: 1.06 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Dynamic characteristics
## Page 29

Description .. .. x y N10 N20 N10 N20 t t Fig. 15: Acceleration profile on X and Y axes ... ... x y N10 N20 N10 N20 t t Fig. 16: Jerk profile on X and Y axes 3. Block transition circular block -> circular block with radius change r2 != r1 y N20 N10 r1 r2 x v B Fig. 17: Tangential continuous block transition from circular block to circular block with radius change TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 1.06 29 Dynamic characteristics
## Page 30

Description . . x y N10 N20 N10 N20 t t Fig. 18: Velocity profile on X and Y axes .. .. x N10 N20 y N10 N20 t t Fig. 19: Acceleration profile on X and Y axes ... ... x y N10 N20 N10 N20 t t Fig. 20: Jerk profile on X and Y axes 30 Version: 1.06 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Dynamic characteristics
## Page 31

Description Parameterisation Jerk limitation at tangential continuous block transitions can be activated and deactivated by the channel parameter P-CHAN-00009. The parameter P-AXIS-00154 weights the permissible jerk at the block transition of tangential continuous paths. The parameter value 1000 has the lowest influence on velocity at the block transition. Jerk is high and corresponds to the ratio between current acceleration and cycle time. Values smaller than 1000 result in a further reduction in velocity at the block transition. The value 0 leads to a velocity reduction so that the permissible jerk at the block transition is maintained based on the ramp times parameters P-AXIS-00195 to P-AXIS-00198 and acceleration parameters P- AXIS-00011 and P-AXIS-00012. jtrans = (P-AXIS-0004 / tr)*(P-AXIS-00154) / 1000. A value > 0 or a restricted jerk limitation at tangential continuous block transitions may be practical if, for technological reasons, it is not desirable for a drop to occur in path velocity at tangential continuous block transitions irrespective of the jerk setting. This may be the case, for example, in wood machining applications to avoid burn marks caused by extremely slow motion. A value < 1000 may be practical if the machine structure is highly prone to critical vibrations and, taking technology aspects and machining time into account, if it is permissible to set a relatively low value for the path velocity at tangential continuous block limits. The figure below shows the influence of jerk limitation on the path velocity profile for a tangential continuous path with linear and circular blocks. It is assumed that the path velocity inside the circle is reduced due to the permissible axis acceleration values. y N40 N20 N60 x v B N10 N50 N30 Fig. 21: Path velocity profile v B N10 N20 N30 N40 N50 N60 t Fig. 22: without jerk limitation at block transition TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 1.06 31 Dynamic characteristics
## Page 32

Description v B N10 N20 N30 N40 N50 N60 t Fig. 23: with jerk limitation at block transition Parameterisation example Jerk limitation at block transition: Excerpt from the axis parameter list: getriebe[0].dynamik.a_trans_weight 0 getriebe[0].dynamik.r_trans_weight 0 Extract from the channel parameters list corr_v_trans_jerk 1 No jerk limitation at block transition: getriebe[0].dynamik.a_trans_weight 1000 getriebe[0].dynamik.r_trans_weight 1000 If a nominal path deviation is permitted, it is generally possible to move at a higher block transition velocity at path knees or tangential continuous transitions with activated jerk limitation by using path-influencing processes, e.g. polynomial contouring. As indicated in the note, the diagram below shows a non-tangential continuous block transition with a knee angle of 1°. As opposed to a block transition velocity without contouring, it is possible here to move at a relatively high path velocity at the block transition in the event of a relatively small path error. 32 Version: 1.06 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Dynamic characteristics
## Page 33

Description Fig. 24: Path velocity due to jerk limitation with transition polynomial TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 1.06 33 Dynamic characteristics
## Page 34

Description 2.3.3 Jerk limitation within the path Parameterisation The parameter P-AXIS-00199 defines the ramp time of geometrical paths. When a path passes through a circle or a polynomial at a constant feedrate, this parameter can limit the maximum occurring jerk resulting from the path curvature. The influence of curvature changes on jerk at the start and end of a path segment is not considered here. With polynomial paths, the influence of parameter P-CHAN-00110 must also be taken into consideration. The permissible jerk caused by geometrical paths results from the default setting in • parameter P-AXIS-00199 and the • acceleration parameters P-AXIS-00011, P-AXIS-00012 and P-AXIS-00004 depending on the motion block type as follows: Feed block: a=1m/s2, tr . = 0.1s, j = 10m/s3 geom geom Rapid traverse block: a=2m/s2, tr . = 0.1s, j = 20m/s3 geom geom Excerpt from the axis parameter list: getriebe[0].slope_profil.a_beschl 1000 getriebe[0].slope_profil.a_brems 1000 getriebe[0].slope_profil.a_grenz 2000 ......... getriebe[0].dynamik.tr_geom 100000 34 Version: 1.06 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Dynamic characteristics
## Page 35

Description 2.4 Emergency stop acceleration Parametrisation The parameter P-AXIS-00003 defines the acceleration used in an emergency. With certain faults, the CNC executes the emergency reaction with fault reaction class 4. In this case, the CNC changes to the stepped acceleration profile regardless of the current acceleration profile activated and decelerates specific axes at this deceleration. The axis leaves the path contour. Emergency acceleration Excerpt from the axis parameter list: getriebe[0].dynamik.a_emergency 5000 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 1.06 35 Dynamic characteristics
## Page 36

Description 2.5 Selecting/modifying the acceleration profile 2.5.1 Profile type and weighting effect, parameterising channel parameters Effect of ramp time weighting The parameter P-CHAN-00073 from the channel parameter list can be set to the acceleration ramp on which the ramp time weighting values of the NC functions G132 and G133 PROG are to act. This parameter has a modal effect. Effect of acceleration weighting The parameter P-CHAN-00001 from the channel parameter list can be set to the acceleration on which the ramp time weighting values of the NC functions G130 and G131 PROG are to act. This parameter has a modal effect. Selecting/modifying the acceleration profile Activate the stepped acceleration profile as default when the program is started. The weighting has an effect on all acceleration values. Excerpt from the channel parameter list: prog_start.slope.profile 0 prog_start.slope.acceleration 0 Initialise the trapezoidal acceleration profile when the program is started. The ramp time weighting has an effect on all ramp times. The acceleration weighting acts on the acceleration at decreasing velocity P- AXIS-00002. Excerpt from the channel parameter list: prog_start.slope.profile 1 prog_start.slope.ramp_time 0 prog_start.slope.acceleration 2 36 Version: 1.06 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Dynamic characteristics
## Page 37

Description 2.5.2 Path-specific dynamic limit, parameterising channel parameters If for technological reasons the path velocity Is not permitted to exceed certain limits regardless of the F word programmed, the parameter P-CHAN-00090 can be used to define a maximum value. This may be the case, for example, if a plasma torch should not cut through at excessive velocity in metal machining applications. When activated in the NC program, the path velocity calculated by the CNC is limited. If for technological reasons the path acceleration Is not permitted to exceed certain limits, the parameter P- CHAN-00002 can be used to define a maximum value. When activated in the NC program, the path acceleration calculated by the CNC is limited. The parameter P-CHAN-00351 sets the unit for acceleration. The parameter P-CHAN-00350 sets the additional influence of acceleration limitation on circle geometry elements. Path-specific dynamics limitation Excerpt from the channel parameter list: vector.velocity 1500 vector.acceleration 1000 vector.acc_dec_unit MM_S2 vector.cir_radial_acc_limit 0 The #VECTOR LIMIT ON[ACC... VEL..] commands activate the path-specific dynamic limitation [PROG]. The operating principle of path acceleration limitation can be influenced by keywords in the command. Limitation then acts • either only on feed blocks • or only on rapid traverse blocks • or on both block types. This does not affect dynamics limitation due to axis-specific limits. The use of path-specific limitation functions listed above and depending on the parameter P- CHAN-00097 can result in considerable lengthening of the deceleration distance with feed blocks. It is therefore recommended to set the P-CHAN-00097 parameter to 1 when the acceleration limita- tion functions listed above are used. Excerpt from the channel parameter list: use_drive_curr_limit 1 2.6 Dynamic limits for manual mode 2.6.1 Parameterising the axis parameters G200 G200: Exclusive manual mode When exclusive manual mode G200 is active, the profile curve is dependent on the ramp times P- AXIS-00359 and P-AXIS-00360. The value P-AXIS-00360 is used when feedhold is active. If these values are set to 0, acceleration increases in steps and assumes • the value P-AXIS-00009 in normal mode • and the value P-AXIS-00259 with feedhold. In the other case, the corresponding acceleration is increased and decreased linearly over time (trapezoidal shape). Ramp time parameters can be set regardless of the parameters for path motion. TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 1.06 37 Dynamic characteristics
## Page 38

Description • Take P-AXIS-00009 into consideration as maximum value for acceleration. • Take P-AXIS-00213 into consideration as maximum value for velocity. In addition, the delay can be set in P-AXIS-00541. The parameter P-AXIS-00541 defines the active acceleration when the PLC signal for reduced acceleration is active (Control Unit gp Ch[Ch Idx]^.bahn_mc_control.reduced_acceleration). The parameter P-AXIS-00259 sets the acceleration value for the deceleration process with feedhold. The channel P-CHAN-00097 must be set to 1 to activate this function. Parameterising the axis parameters G200 Excerpt from the axis parameter list for G200 mode: handbetrieb.hb.a_feedh 5000 handbetrieb.hb.tr 50000 handbetrieb.hb.tr_feedh 25000 handbetrieb.hb.vb_max 60000 handbetrieb.hb.a_max 1000 handbetrieb.hb.d_max 1000 handbetrieb.hb.a_max_red 500 38 Version: 1.06 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Dynamic characteristics
## Page 39

Description 2.6.2 Parameterising the axis parameters G201 G201: Manual mode with parallel path interpolation When inclusive manual mode G201 {PROG] is activated, the dynamics of an axis is defined by a percentage split between interpolators for manual mode and for path mode. The active ramp times for manual mode are defined by parameters P-AXIS-00359 and P-AXIS-00360 . The active ramp times in path mode Are dependent on the active slope path profile and the parameters described in the section “Jerk-limited default acceleration profile [} 16]“. The maximum permissible axis acceleration P-AXIS-00008results from the maximum value for aggregate acceleration resulting from manual and path modes. The parameter P-AXIS-00212 is considered as the maximum axis velocity. The parameter P-AXIS-00082 sets the percentage acceleration component for manual mode. The parameter P-AXIS-00094 sets the percentage acceleration component for path mode. The parameter P-AXIS-00083 sets the percentage velocity component for manual mode. The parameter P-AXIS-00095 sets the percentage velocity component for path mode. Parameterising the axis parameters G201 Excerpt from the axis parameter list for G201 mode: handbetrieb.hb.tr 50000 handbetrieb.hb.tr_feedh 25000 handbetrieb.ipo.hb_proz_v_max 30 handbetrieb.ipo.hb_proz_a_max 30 handbetrieb.ipo.ipo_proz_v_max 70 handbetrieb.ipo.ipo_proz_a_max 70 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 1.06 39 Dynamic characteristics
## Page 40

Description 2.6.3 Parameterising channel parameters Manual mode when kinematic transformation is active Additional Cartesian dynamic limits are available in conjunction with kinematic transformation, i.e. they act on Cartesian position axes and orientation axes. Typical application examples are in the field of non-linear kinematics (e.g. robots) where the PCS limits (Cartesian programming coordinates) and ACS limits (axis coordinates) can have large differences. Position axes: (typical axis index 0 to 2) P-CHAN-00195: maximum velocity P-CHAN-00196: maximum acceleration P-CHAN-00197 Ramp time Orientation axes: (typical axis index 3 to 5) P-CHAN-00198: maximum velocity P-CHAN-00199: maximum acceleration P-CHAN-00200: Ramp time Manual mode when kinematic transformation is active Excerpt from the channel parameter list: #Position axes man_mode.vector_limit.v_max_pos 15000 man_mode.vector_limit.a_max_pos 500 man_mode.vector_limit.tr_pos 10000 #orientation axes man_mode.vector_limit.v_max_ori 15000 man_mode.vector_limit.a_max_ori 500 man_mode.vector_limit.tr_ori 10000 Due to the distance accuracy of the manual mode, the maximum permissible velocity in handwheel mode must be set to avoid unnecessarily long motion delay in handwheel mode. Therefore, the dis- tance specified for each CNC cycle should not exceed the maximum velocity. In the same way the incremental jog velocities must be aligned with the maximum permissible velo- city in manual mode to avoid unnecessarily long motion delay after pressing the jog keys. With rel- atively small acceleration values, a certain delay time inevitably occurs after the jog key is released. 40 Version: 1.06 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Dynamic characteristics
## Page 41

Description 2.7 Parameters for homing Parametrisation The following parameters only are relevant for CNC-controlled homing. In general, homing with digital intelligent drives is executed by the drive itself with drive-specific parameters. When programming with G74 PROG the CNC uses the acceleration profile set using the P-AXIS-00270 parameter. The parameter P-AXIS-00285 is used as acceleration value; the parameter P-AXIS-00286 sets ramp time in conjunction with non-linear profiles. Excerpt from the axis parameter list: getriebe[0].slope_type 1 getriebe[0].a_ref 500 getriebe[0].tr_ref 200000 The linear profile is used without explicit parameterisation. The parameter a_ref is assigned the minimum of P-AXIS-00005 and P-AXIS-00006 . The parameter P-AXIS-00218 sets slow velocity for cam and zero pulse search. The parameter P-AXIS-00219 sets rapid velocity for cam and zero pulse search. Excerpt from the axis parameter list: getriebe[0].vb_refmax 20000 getriebe[0].vb_reflow 2000 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 1.06 41 Dynamic characteristics
## Page 42

Description 2.8 Parameters for reduced velocity Parametrisation The following parameters are active when the user activates the real-time control signals in the PLC for • reduced velocity or • reduced velocity in the safety zone when the axis is in one of the two safety zones P-AXIS-00085, P- AXIS-00093 or P-AXIS-00097 and P-AXIS-00105. This therefore limits the axis velocities travelled and not the path velocityto a predefined value. The parameter P-AXIS-00214 defines the maximum velocity when the PLC signal is active: gp Ax[axis_idx]^.ipo_mc_control.reduced_speed For rapid traverse motions, the parameter P-AXIS-00155 can set a deviating value. If the parameter P- AXIS-00155 is not assigned, the parameter P-AXIS-00214 is also used for rapid traverse motions. The parameters P-AXIS-00030 and P-AXIS-00503 define the maximum permissible axis velocity in the safety zone when the PLC signal is active. For zone 1 with associated reduced velocity: gp AX[axis_idx]^.ipo_mc_control.reduced_speed_zone or for zone 2 with associated reduced velocity: gp AX[axis_idx]^.ipo_mc_control.reduced_speed_2_zone Also define additional position limits for the zones. Excerpt from the axis parameter list: getriebe[0].vb_max_red 25000 getriebe[0].rapid_speed_red 50000 getriebe[0].vb_max_red_zone 50000 getriebe[0].vb_max_red_zone_2 50000 42 Version: 1.06 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Dynamic characteristics
## Page 43

Description 2.9 Control flags Parametrisation The parameter P-CHAN-00009 activates jerk limiting at tangential block transitions. A return takes place at tangential transitions between 2 circles of different radii or between a circle and a linear block, for instance. Excerpt from the channel parameter list: corr_v_trans_jerk 1 The parameter mentioned above is effective only in conjunction with the jerk-limited acceleration profile. The parameter P-CHAN-00110 activates jerk limiting in polynomial blocks. Jerk monitoring is always active with circular blocks. Polynomial blocks are generated in the CNC in conjunction with polynomial contouring, spline and HSC functions. Excerpt from the channel parameter list: check_jerk_on_poly_path 1 The parameter P-CHAN-00097 selects the CNC braking mode when feedhold is active. When the flag is set, the feedhold parameter block is used for the braking operation, i.e. braking is possible at a higher acceleration than when part machining or positioning is active. Excerpt from the channel parameter list: use_drive_curr_limit 1 Pay attention to the following for the jerk-limited acceleration profile in line with the descriptions: An increase in deceleration values at constant jerk does not automatically lead to a shorter braking distance. With the jerk-limited profile, this also depends on the ramp time and the velocity decrease difference. The borderline case is described in the section “Jerk-limited default acceleration profile“ [} 16] . TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 1.06 43 Dynamic characteristics
## Page 44

Parameterisation 3 Parameterisation 3.1 Overview 3.1.1 Channel parameters ID Parameter Description P-CHAN-00001 acceleration Effect of acceleration weighting P-CHAN-00002 acceleration Maximum path acceleration P-CHAN-00009 corr_v_trans_jerk Jerk limitation at a tangential block transition P-CHAN-00056 max_vb_override Maximum channel override P-CHAN-00071 profile Default acceleration profile P-CHAN-00073 ramp_time Effect of ramp time weighting P-CHAN-00090 velocity Maximum path velocity P-CHAN-00097 use_drive_curr_limit Deceleration response at feedhold P-CHAN-00110 check_jerk_on_poly_p Jerk limitation in polynomial ath P-CHAN-00195 v_max_pos Manual mode: Maximum Cartesian velocity P-CHAN-00196 a_max_pos Manual mode: Maximum Cartesian acceleration P-CHAN-00197 tr_max_pos Manual mode: Maximum Cartesian ramp time P-CHAN-00198 v_max_ori Manual mode: Maximum velocity of orientation axis P-CHAN-00199 a_max_ori Manual mode: Maximum velocity of orientation axis P-CHAN-00200 tr_max_ori Manual mode: Maximum ramp time of orientation axis P-CHAN-00208 deceleration Maximum path deceleration P-CHAN-00351 acc_dec_unit Unit of P-CHAN-00002, P-CHAN-00208 44 Version: 1.06 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Dynamic characteristics
## Page 45

Parameterisation 3.1.2 Axis parameters General parameters ID Parameter Description P-AXIS-00003 a_emergency Emergency axis acceleration P-AXIS-00008 a_max Maximum permissible axis acceleration P-AXIS-00030 vb_max_red_zone Reduced velocity in security zone P-AXIS-00155 rapid_speed_red Reduced velocity with G00 P-AXIS-00209 vb_eilgang Rapid traverse velocity (G00) P-AXIS-00212 vb_max Maximum permissible axis velocity P-AXIS-00214 vb_max_red Reduced velocity with G01, G02 and G03 P-AXIS-00218 vb_reflow Minimum velocity for cam and zero pulse search P-AXIS-00219 vb_refmax Maximum velocity for cam and zero pulse search P-AXIS-00285 a_ref Acceleration for CNC-controlled homing P-AXIS-00503 vb_max_red_zone_2 Reduced velocity in safety zone 2 Parameters of stepped acceleration profile ID Parameter Description P-AXIS-00005 a_grenz_stufe_1 Rapid traverse step 1 acceleration (G00) P-AXIS-00006 a_grenz_stufe_2 Acceleration in step 2 in rapid traverse (G00) P-AXIS-00011 a_stufe_1 Acceleration in Step 1 P-AXIS-00012 a_stufe_2 Acceleration in Step 2 P-AXIS-00024 a_feedh Feedhold acceleration P-AXIS-00211 vb_grenz_stufe_1_2 Changeover velocity between rapid traverse acceleration stages (G00) P-AXIS-00221 vb_stufe_1_2 Changeover velocity between acceleration stages Parameters of jerk-limited acceleration profiles ID Parameter Description P-AXIS-00001 a_beschl Acceleration at increasing velocity P-AXIS-00002 a_brems Acceleration at decreasing velocity P-AXIS-00004 a_grenz Acceleration in rapid traverse (G00) P-AXIS-00013 a_trans_weight Weighting of acceleration at motion block transition P-AXIS-00053 a_feedh Feedhold acceleration P-AXIS-00081 tr_feedh Feedhold ramp time P-AXIS-00154 r_trans_weight Weighting of jerk at block transition P-AXIS-00195 tr_beschl_ab Ramp time for acceleration down-gradation P-AXIS-00196 tr_beschl_zu Ramp time for acceleration up-gradation P-AXIS-00197 tr_brems_ab Ramp time for deceleration down-gradation P-AXIS-00198 tr_brems_zu Ramp time for deceleration up-gradation P-AXIS-00199 tr_geom Geometric ramp time P-AXIS-00200 tr_grenz Ramp time in rapid traverse (G00) P-AXIS-00201 tr_min Minimum permissible ramp time P-AXIS-00286 tr_ref Ramp time during homing TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 1.06 45 Dynamic characteristics
## Page 46

Parameterisation Parameters for manual mode ID Parameter Description P-AXIS-00009 a_max Maximum acceleration in manual mode (G200) P-AXIS-00082 hb_proz_a_max Percentage acceleration for manual mode (G201) P-AXIS-00083 hb_proz_v_max Percentage velocity for manual mode (G201) P-AXIS-00094 ipo_proz_a_max Percentage acceleration for path mode (G201) P-AXIS-00095 ipo_proz_v_max Percentage velocity for path mode (G201) P-AXIS-00213 vb_max Maximum velocity for manual mode (G200) P-AXIS-00259 a_feedh Feedhold acceleration in manual mode (G200) P-AXIS-00359 tr Ramp time in manual mode (G200) P-AXIS-00360 tr_feedh Feedhold ramp time in manual mode (G200) P-AXIS-00541 d_max Maximum deceleration in manual mode (G200) P-AXIS-00545 a_max_red Reduced maximum acceleration (G200) 46 Version: 1.06 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Dynamic characteristics
## Page 47

Parameterisation 3.2 Description 3.2.1 Channel parameters P-CHAN-00001 Default effect of acceleration weighting at program start Description Default value to set acceleration weighting. Parameter prog_start.slope.acceleration Data type SGN16 Data range 0: Weighting acts on all accelerations (default) 1: Weighting acts on a accel 2: Weighting acts on a decel Dimension ---- Default value 0 Remarks P-CHAN-00002 Path acceleration limit Description If no change is made to the parameter values by NC programming, this value limits path acceleration after it is activated in the NC program. Parameter vector.acceleration Data type REAL64 Data range 0 ... Maximum acceleration, application-specific Dimension mm/min² or mm/s² * Default value 100000000 Remarks * The dimension used depends on P-CHAN-00351 [} 52]. Parameterisation example: vector.acceleration 1800000 The specified default value is in mm/min². P-CHAN-00009 Reduction of tangential transition velocity between circles Description Tangential block transitions between circles with different radii and circles and linear blocks and vice versa lead to a jerk depending on circle radius. A jerk produced by activating this function can be reduced in order to reduce the excitation of vibrations on the machine when non-linear velocity profiles are active. At tangential block transitions, the speed is reduced dependent on the permissible jerk. The calculation is based on axis- specific jerk parameters for non-linear speed profiles (see also [AXIS] documentation). On the other hand, the reduction of speed at tangential block transitions is not acceptable with specific machining technologies since the machining process has a very sensitive reaction to a reduction in velocity. Parameter corr_v_trans_jerk Data type BOOLEAN Data range 0: No inclusion of jerk at tangential block transitions. 1: Inclusion of jerk at tangential block transitions. Dimension ---- Default value 0 Remarks P-CHAN-00056 Limiting maximum channel override Description This parameter limits the maximum override in the channel. Parameter max_vb_override Data type UNS16 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 1.06 47 Dynamic characteristics
## Page 48

Parameterisation Data range 0 ≤ max_vb_override ≤ 2000 (maximum value of channel override, application- specific) Dimension 0.1% Default value 1000 Remarks Parameterisation example: The limit of the maximum channel override is 150%. max_vb_override 1500 P-CHAN-00071 Default acceleration profile at program start Description Default value for the selected acceleration profile type with path motions and oscillating axis motions. Parameter prog_start.slope.profile Data type SGN16 Data range 0: Step-shaped acceleration profile, (default, linear profile) 1: Trapezoidal acceleration profile 2: Sine-square acceleration profile 3: Trapezoidal HSC acceleration profile (across blocks) Dimension ---- Default value 0 Remarks The acceleration profile and the associated acceleration and ramp time weighting can be programmed in the NC program with the #SLOPE [TYPE..] command [PROG]. The maximum of the weighted ramp times P-AXIS-00195 is always effective with the trapezoidal HSC acceleration profile. P-AXIS-00198. For every independent axis, the acceleration profile can also be programmed specifically in the NC command with the key word SLOPE_TYPE [PROG]. P-CHAN-00073 Default effect of ramp time weighting at program start Description Default value for setting ramp time weighting. This value is only relevant for trapezoidal or sine-square acceleration profiles. Parameter prog_start.slope.ramp_time Data type SGN16 Data range 0: Weighting affects all ramp times (default) 1: Weighting acts on T R,accel,inc 2: Weighting acts on T R,accel,red 3: Weighting acts on T R,decel,inc 4: Weighting acts on T R,decel,red Dimension ---- Default value 0 Remarks P-CHAN-00078 Resolution of rotary axes Description This value represents the conversion factor between the path motions or the positions programmed in the NC program and the internal representation for position values with rotary axes. Parameter rund_aufloes Data type REAL64 Data range 0 < rund_aufloes < MAX(REAL64) Dimension ---- Default value 10000 48 Version: 1.06 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Dynamic characteristics
## Page 49

Parameterisation Remarks Not to be confused with the resolution of the drive encoder P-AXIS-00234/P- AXIS-00235. As of CNC Build V2.11.2026.09 P-CHAN-00315 replaces the parameters lin_aufloes, rund_aufloes and spind_aufloes (P-CHAN-00034, P-CHAN-00035 and P-CHAN-00036). It is recommended to use only P-CHAN-00315 as of this CNC Build. Parameterisation example: All rotary axes are specified in the dimension 'Degree' [°] in the NC program. rund_aufloes 10000 P-CHAN-00090 Path velocity limit Description If no change is made to the parameter values by NC programming, this value limits path velocity after it is activated in the NC program. Parameter vector.velocity Data type REAL64 Data range 0 ... Maximum acceleration, application-specific Dimension mm/min Default value 2000000000 Remarks Parameterisation example: vector.velocity 1500 P-CHAN-00090 Path velocity limit Description If no change is made to the parameter values by NC programming, this value limits path velocity after it is activated in the NC program. Parameter vector.velocity Data type REAL64 Data range 0 ... Maximum acceleration, application-specific SLOPE_VB_MAX Dimension mm/min Default value 0 Remarks Parameterisation example: vector.velocity 1500 vector.acceleration 1800000 vector.deceleration 2000000 P-CHAN-00097 Valid deceleration ramp at FEEDHOLD Description This parameter defines the deceleration ramp used when FEEDHOLD is active. When P-CHAN-00097 is set, the parameterised delay is dependent on the slope used. With a linear slope, the delay is defined by P-AXIS-00024; if the slop is non-linear, it is defined by P-AXIS-00053 [} 59] and P-AXIS-00081. Parameter use_drive_curr_limit Data type BOOLEAN Data range 0: When FEEDHOLD is set, deceleration takes place using the currently valid deceleration rate. 1: When FEEDHOLD is set, deceleration takes place using the parameterised delay depending on the slope used. If these two parameters are not set, deceleration takes place at the currently valid deceleration rate (P-AXIS-00004 [} 58]). Dimension ---- Default value 0 Remarks P-CHAN-00110 Including jerk in the polynomial TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 1.06 49 Dynamic characteristics
## Page 50

Parameterisation Description The curvature of the programmed contour (polynomial) results in an axis jerk. If the value is 1 or 3, this jerk is monitored together with the axis-specific dynamic parameters of the geometrical ramp time (P-AXIS-00199). In addition, an active kinematic compensation movement is included when value 3 is in the polynomial. If the value is 2, the ramp times P-AXIS-00195… P-AXIS-00198 are used for jerk monitoring. If a relatively small maximum jerk is specified in the axis, the velocity on the path is reduced accordingly. If this reduction is not wanted for technological reasons, these parameters suppress jerk monitoring in polynomials. Parameter check_jerk_on_poly_path Data type UNS32 Data range 0: No jerk limiting in the polynomial. 1: Jerk limiting in the polynomial based on P-AXIS-00199 (default). 2: Jerk limiting in the polynomial based on the maximum of P-AXIS-00195, P- AXIS-00196, P-AXIS-00197, P-AXIS-00198. 3: As for value 1 and in addition polynomials in combination with kinematic compensation movement. Dimension ---- Default value 1 Remarks P-CHAN-00195 Command speed of a linear axis in manual operation mode Description This parameter defines the Cartesian dynamics of a manual mode axis for an X, Y, Z movement. Parameter man_mode.vector_limit.v_max_pos Data type UNS32 Data range 1 < v_max_pos < MAX(UNS32) Dimension µm/s or 0.001°/s Default value 0 Remarks Parameterisation example: man_mode.vector_limit.v_max_pos 100000 [µm/s] P-CHAN-00196 Command acceleration of a linear axis in manual operation mode Description This parameter defines the Cartesian dynamics of a manual mode axis for an X, Y, Z movement. Parameter man_mode.vector_limit.a_max_pos Data type UNS32 Data range 1 < a_max_pos < MAX(UNS32) Dimension mm/s² or °/s² Default value 0 Remarks Parameterisation example: man_mode.vector_limit.a_max_pos 1000 [mm/s²] P-CHAN-00197 Ramp time of a linear axis in manual operation mode Description This parameter defines the Cartesian dynamics of a manual mode axis for an X, Y, Z movement. Parameter man_mode.vector_limit.tr_pos Data type UNS32 Data range 1 < tr_pos < MAX(UNS32) Dimension µs 50 Version: 1.06 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Dynamic characteristics
## Page 51

Parameterisation Default value 0 Remarks Parameterisation example: man_mode.vector_limit.tr_pos 100000 [µs] P-CHAN-00198 Command speed of an orientation axis in manual mode Description This parameter defines the Cartesian dynamics of a manual mode axis with an A, B, C movement. Parameter man_mode.vector_limit.v_max_ori Data type UNS32 Data range 1 < v_max_ori < MAX(UNS32) Dimension µm/s or 0.001°/s Default value 0 Remarks Parameterisation example: man_mode.vector_limit.v_max_ori 50000 [µm/s] P-CHAN-00199 Command acceleration of an orientation axis in manual mode Description This parameter defines the Cartesian dynamics of a manual mode axis with an A, B, C movement. Parameter man_mode.vector_limit.a_max_ori Data type UNS32 Data range 1 < a_max_ori < MAX(UNS32) Dimension mm/s² or °/s² Default value 0 Remarks Parameterisation example: man_mode.vector_limit.a_max_ori 500 [mm/s²] P-CHAN-00200 Ramp time of an orientation axis in manual mode Description This parameter defines the Cartesian dynamics of a manual mode axis with an A, B, C movement. Parameter man_mode.vector_limit.tr_ori Data type UNS32 Data range 1 < tr_ori < MAX(UNS32) Dimension µs Default value 0 Remarks Parameterisation example: man_mode.vector_limit.tr_ori 100000 [µs] P-CHAN-00208 Path deceleration limit Description If no change is made to the parameter values by NC programming, this value limits path deceleration after it is activated in the NC program. Parameter vector.deceleration Data type REAL64 Data range 0 ... Maximum deceleration, application-specific Dimension mm/min² or mm/s² * Default value 100000000 Remarks * The dimension used depends on P-CHAN-00351 [} 52]. Parameterisation example: vector.deceleration 2000000 The specified default value is in mm/min². TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 1.06 51 Dynamic characteristics
## Page 52

Parameterisation P-CHAN-00351 Unit for path acceleration and path deceleration Description This channel parameter switches over the unit of acceleration/deceleration in the #VECTOR LIMIT command. The default unit is mm/min² or mm/min3. This unit is switched over to mm/s² by setting the parameters to MM_S2. The arguments ACC, DEC, RADIAL_ACC and RADIAL_JERK in the NC command are then interpreted in the unit mm/s² or mm/s3. Parameter vector.acc_dec_unit Data type STRING Data range MM_M2: Unit is mm/min2 or mm/min3 MM_S2: Unit is mm/sec2 or mm/sec3 Dimension ---- Default value MM_M2 Remarks This parameter cannot be set using the NC command #VECTOR LIMIT. Parameterisation example: vector.acc_dec_unit MM_S2 3.2.2 Axis parameters 3.2.2.1 General parameters P-AXIS-00003 Deceleration for an emergency stop Description The parameter defines the used deceleration for an emergency stop. If errors of error reaction class 4 occur, the NC decelerates at the rate for specific axes. The path then leaves the trajectory. Parameter getriebe[i].dynamik.a_emergency Data type UNS32 Data range 1 ≤ a_emergency ≤ 2*P-AXIS-00008 Axis types T, R, S Dimension T: mm/s² R,S: °/s² Default value 0 drive types. ---- Remarks When the parameter has the value 0, the value of P-AXIS-00008 (a_max) is used. P-AXIS-00008 Maximum permissible axis acceleration Description The parameter defines the maximum permissible axis acceleration. Parameter getriebe[i].dynamik.a_max Data type UNS32 Data range 1 ≤ a_max ≤ 100000000 (Presetting of maximum axis acceleration, plausibility limit, application-specific) Axis types T, R, S Dimension T: mm/s² R,S: °/s² Default value 1000 Drive types ---- Remarks P-AXIS-00030 Maximum permissible axis velocity in security zone 52 Version: 1.06 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Dynamic characteristics
## Page 53

Parameterisation Description The parameter defines the maximum permissible axis velocity inside the security zones 1 and 2 if the control signal is active. Activation for security zone 1 is executed by the “Reduced velocity in zone 1“ control unit. This security zone is limited by the position limits given by P-AXIS-00093 and P-AXIS-00085. Activation for security zone 2 is executed by the “Reduced velocity in zone 2“ control unit. This security zone is limited by the position limits given by P-AXIS-00105 and P-AXIS-00097. Parameter getriebe[i].vb_max_red_zone Data type UNS32 Data range 0 ≤ P. AXIS-00030 ≤ P-AXIS-00212 Axis types T, R Dimension T: µm/s R: 0.001°/s Default value 0 drive types. ---- Remarks When P-AXIS-00503 is 0 (default), this parameter is always effective for both zones. P-AXIS-00155 Reduced maximum speed with active G00 Description When G00 is active, the PLC can command the CNC by a control signal to switch over to a reduced axis feed. The control signal is sent by the “Reduced speed“ control unit. The reaction is in real time. After a deceleration which may be required, none of the moved axes moves faster than the parameter input. Parameter getriebe[i].rapid_speed_red Data type UNS32 Data range 0 ≤ P-AXIS-00155 ≤ P-AXIS-00212 Axis types T, R, S Dimension T: µm/s R,S: 0.001°/s Default value 0 Drive types ---- Remarks P-AXIS-00209 Rapid mode velocity Description The rapid traverse velocity is specified for positioning in rapid traverse (G00). Parameter getriebe[i].vb_eilgang Data type UNS32 Data range 1 ≤ vb_eilgang ≤ P-AXIS-00212 Axis types T, R, S Dimension T: µm/s R,S: 0.001°/s Default value 166666 Drive types ---- Remarks P-AXIS-00212 Maximum permissible axis velocity Description The parameter defines the maximum permissible axis velocity. Parameter getriebe[i].dynamik.vb_max Data type UNS32 Data range 1 < hb_v_max_track ≤ 2000000000 (Presetting of maximum axis velocity, plausibility limit, application-specific) Axis types T, R, S Dimension T: µm/s R,S: 0,001°/s TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 1.06 53 Dynamic characteristics
## Page 54

Parameterisation Default value 200000 Drive types ---- Remarks In the case of axes of the type 'ACHSTYP_TRANSLATOR' and 'ACHSTYP_ROTATOR' it is presumed that while setting the maximum permissible axis velocity the resolution limits of the measuring system will also be taken into consideration. In the case of axes of the type 'ACHSTYP_SPINDEL' which are controlled by a spindle interpolator, the limit at which the measuring system delivers no valid values is set using the parameter P-AXIS-00220 . Examples: Spindle speed at 10000 rpm value = 10000 * 6 * 1000 = 60000000 (unit 0.001 °/s) With units (10000 [rpm] * 360 [°/rev] * 1000 [0.001 °/°]) / 60 [s/min] = 60000000 [0.001 °/s] Translator at 1000 mm/min value = 1000 * 1000 / 60 = 16666 (unit 0.001 µm/s) With units (1000 [rpm] * 1000 [0.001 µm/mm]) / 60 [s/min] = 16666 [0.001 µm/s] P-AXIS-00214 Reduced maximum speed with active G01 Description The PLC uses a control signal to command the CNC to switch over to a reduced axis feed. The control signal is sent by the “Reduced speed“ control unit. The reaction is in real time. After a deceleration which may be required, none of the moved axes moves faster than the parameter input. The active G01 deceleration value is used for the braking operation. If the deceleration value is changed in the NC program (#VECTOR LIMIT, G130, G131), it affects the braking operation. This parameter defines the reduced axis speed, even if manual mode is active. Parameter getriebe[i].vb_max_red Data type UNS32 Data range 0 ≤ P-AXIS-00214 ≤ P-AXIS-00212 Axis types T, R, S Dimension T: µm/s R,S: 0.001°/s Default value 0 Drive types ---- Remarks P-AXIS-00218 Slow velocity for exact detection of reference position Description Not only the traverse downwards of cam but also the traverse on cam with homing takes place at the velocity P-AXIS-00218. Parameter getriebe[i].vb_reflow Data type UNS32 Data range 1 ≤ vb_reflow ≤ P-AXIS-00219 Axis types T, R, S Dimension T: µm/s R,S: 0.001°/s Default value 16666 54 Version: 1.06 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Dynamic characteristics
## Page 55

Parameterisation drive types. Simulation, Conventional, Terminal, Lightbus, Profidrive Remarks P-AXIS-00219 Fast velocity for detection of reference cam Description At start of homing, if the axis is not on the cam, then travel on the cam takes place at the velocity defined in P-AXIS-00219. Parameter getriebe[i].vb_refmax Data type UNS32 Data range P-AXIS-00218 ≤ vb_refmax ≤ P-AXIS-00212 Axis types T, R, S Dimension T: µm/s R,S: 0.001°/s Default value 83333 drive types. Conventional, Terminal, Lightbus, Profidrive Remarks P-AXIS-00285 Acceleration during homing Description The parameter includes the axis acceleration during CNC-controlled homing procedure. If the parameter is unassigned, the values of the parameters P- AXIS-00005, P-AXIS-00006are adopted. Parameter getriebe[i].a_ref Data type UNS32 Data range 0 ≤ a_ref ≤ P-AXIS-00008 Axis types T, R Dimension T: mm/s² R: °/s² Default value 0 Drive types Simulation, Conventional, Terminal, Lightbus, Profidrive Remarks When the parameter has the value 0, it is assigned the minimum of the values of P- AXIS-00005 (a_grenz-stufe_1) and P-AXIS-00006 . P-AXIS-00503 Maximum permissible axis velocity in security zone 2 Description The parameter defines the maximum permissible axis velocity inside the security zones 1 and 2 if the control signal is active. Activation for security zone 2 is executed by the “Reduced velocity in zone 2“ control unit. This security zone is limited by the position limits given by P-AXIS-00105 and P-AXIS-00097. Parameter getriebe[i].vb_max_red_zone_2 Data type UNS32 Data range 0 ≤ P-AXIS-00503 ≤ P-AXIS-00212 Axis types T, R Dimension T: µm/s R: 0.001°/s Default value 0 Drive types ---- Remarks This parameter is available as of CNC Build V3.1.3052.05 or higher. When the parameter value is not set or has the value 0, vb_max_red_zone_2 is not active, i.e. the identical value of P-AXIS-00030. 3.2.2.2 Linear slope P-AXIS-00005 Acceleration of step 1 in rapid mode (linear slope) TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 1.06 55 Dynamic characteristics
## Page 56

Parameterisation Description The parameter defines the step 1 rapid traverse acceleration (G00). For positioning in rapid traverse (G00), ramps are often chosen steeper than for the linear and circular interpolation (G01, G02, G03). Parameter getriebe[i].lslope_profil.a_grenz_stufe_1 Data type UNS32 Data range 1 ≤ a_grenz_stufe_1 ≤ P-AXIS-00008 Axis types T, R, S Dimension T: mm/s² R,S: °/s² Default value 1000 Drive types ---- Remarks This limit acceleration is generally set close to the current limit to achieve fast positioning and fast deceleration values. The acceleration ramps can be changed in the NC program. The appropriate NC commands are described in [PROG//G231] in greater detail. P-AXIS-00006 Acceleration of step 2 in rapid mode (linear slope) Description The parameter defines the step 2 rapid traverse acceleration (G00). For positioning in rapid traverse (G00), ramps are often chosen steeper than for the linear and circular interpolation (G01, G02, G03). Parameter getriebe[i].lslope_profil.a_grenz_stufe_2 Data type UNS32 Data range 1 ≤ a_grenz_stufe_2 ≤ P-AXIS-00008 Axis types T, R, S Dimension T: mm/s² R,S: °/s² Default value 1000 Drive types ---- Remarks This limit acceleration is generally set close to the current limit to achieve fast positioning and fast deceleration values. The acceleration ramps can be changed in the NC program. The appropriate NC commands are described in [PROG//G231] in greater detail. P-AXIS-00011 Acceleration of step 1 (linear slope) Description The parameter only becomes active during the deceleration phases. It defines the acceleration in step 1. Parameter getriebe[i].lslope_profil.a_stufe_1 Data type UNS32 Data range 1 ≤ a_stufe_1 ≤ P-AXIS-00008 Axis types T, R, S Dimension T: mm/s² R: °/s² Default value 1000 Drive types ---- Remarks The acceleration ramps can be changed in the NC program. The appropriate NC commands are described in detail in [PROG//G130, G131]. This parameter has no effect with spindles. P-AXIS-00012 Acceleration of step 2 (linear slope) Description The parameter only becomes active during the deceleration phases. It defines the acceleration in step 2. Parameter getriebe[i].lslope_profil.a_stufe_2 Data type UNS32 Data range 1 ≤ a_stufe_2 ≤ P-AXIS-00008 Axis types T, R, S 56 Version: 1.06 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Dynamic characteristics
## Page 57

Parameterisation Dimension T: mm/s² R,S: °/s² Default value 1000 Drive types ---- Remarks The acceleration ramps can be changed in the NC program. The appropriate NC commands are described in detail in [PROG//G130, G131] in greater detail. P-AXIS-00024 Deceleration for feedhold (linear slope) Description When feedhold is active because of user reaction, measurement travel or homing, steeper ramps are often required than for positioning (G00) or workpiece machining (e.g. G01, G02, G03). The parameter defines the deceleration value for these cases. When the feed stop (e_feedhold) control unit is used, the value of this parameter is always used. If the entry is missing or assigned the value 0, the minimum of the values of P-AXIS-00005 (a_grenz_stufe_1 and P-AXIS-00006 (a_grenz_stufe_2) is used for deceleration. Parameter getriebe[i].lslope_profil.a_feedh Data type UNS32 Data range 0 ≤ a_feedh ≤ P-AXIS-00008 Axis types T, R Dimension T: mm/s² R: °/s² Default value 0 Drive types ---- Remarks P-AXIS-00024 is only used with feedhold if the parameter P-CHAN-00097 in the channel parameter list is assigned the value 1. If P-AXIS-00024 is assigned the value 0, the minimum of the values P-AXIS-00005 (a_grenz_stufe_1 and P-AXIS-00006 (a_grenz_stufe_2) is used. P-AXIS-00211 Changeover speed in rapid mode (linear slope) Description For positioning in rapid traverse (G00), ramps are often chosen steeper than for the linear and circular interpolation (G01, G02, G03). The parameter defines the acceleration and deceleration phases for these cases. It defines the changeover speed between step 1 and step 2 (P-AXIS-00005 and P- AXIS-00006 or P-AXIS-00281 and P-AXIS-00280). Parameter getriebe[i].lslope_profil.vb_grenz_stufe_1_2 Data type UNS32 Data range 1 ≤ vb_grenz_stufe_1_2 ≤ P-AXIS-00212 Axis types T, R, S Dimension T: µm/s R,S: 0.001°/s Default value 100000 Drive types ---- Remarks P-AXIS-00221 Changeover speed (linear slope) Description The parameter becomes active during the acceleration and deceleration phases. It defines the changeover speed between step 1 and step 2 (P-AXIS-00011 and P- AXIS-00012 or P-AXIS-00283 and P-AXIS-00282). Parameter getriebe[i].lslope_profil.vb_stufe_1_2 Data type UNS32 Data range 1 ≤ vb_stufe_1_2 ≤ P-AXIS-00212 Axis types T, R, S Dimension T: µm/s R,S: 0.001°/s Default value 100000 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 1.06 57 Dynamic characteristics
## Page 58

Parameterisation Drive types ---- Remarks 3.2.2.3 Non-linear slope P-AXIS-00001 Acceleration at machining feed (non-linear slope) Description The parameter represents the axis acceleration with increasing velocity. Parameter getriebe[i].slope_profil.a_beschl Data type UNS32 Data range 1 ≤ a_beschl ≤ P-AXIS-00008 Axis types T, R Dimension T: mm/s² R,S: °/s² Default value 1000 Drive types ---- Remarks The acceleration ramps can be changed in the NC program. The appropriate NC commands are described in [PROG//G130/G131] in greater detail. P-AXIS-00002 Deceleration at machining feed (non-linear slope) Description The parameter represents the axis deceleration with decreasing velocity. Parameter getriebe[i].slope_profil.a_brems Data type UNS32 Data range 1 ≤ a_brems ≤ P-AXIS-00008 Axis types T, R, S Dimension T: mm/s² R,S: °/s² Default value 1000 Drive types ---- Remarks The acceleration ramps can be changed in the NC program. The appropriate NC commands are described in [PROG//G130/G131] in greater detail. P-AXIS-00004 Acceleration at rapid movement (non-linear slope) Description This acceleration parameter is active for deceleration and acceleration with rapid traverse movements (G00). Parameter getriebe[i].slope_profil.a_grenz Data type UNS32 Data range 1 ≤ a_grenz ≤ P-AXIS-00008 Axis types T, R, S Dimension T: mm/s² R,S: °/s² Default value 1000 Drive types ---- Remarks The acceleration ramps can be changed in the NC program. The appropriate NC commands are described in [PROG//G231] in greater detail. P-AXIS-00013 Weighting of acceleration at motion block transition Description This parameter weights the permissible acceleration at a motion block transition. If the value 0 is not specified in the parameter list, the weighting of the permissible acceleration with the cycle time/ramp time factor is valid (default setting). Parameter getriebe[i].dynamik.a_trans_weight Data type UNS32 Data range 1 ≤ a_trans_weight ≤ 1000 Axis types T, R, S 58 Version: 1.06 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Dynamic characteristics
## Page 59

Parameterisation Dimension T: 0.1% R,S: 0.1% Default value 0 Drive types ---- Remarks This parameter is only considered if the non-linear slope is used as soon as the contour has a kink angle. To define the slope type, see • P-CHAN-00071 [} 48] • program command #SLOPE [ TYPE=…] P-AXIS-00053 Deceleration at feedhold (non-linear slope) Description When feedhold is active because of user reaction, measurement travel or homing, ramps are often chosen steeper than for positioning (G00) or workpiece machining (e.g. G01, G02, G03). The parameter defines the deceleration value for these cases. If an entry is not made, the same deceleration as for G00 is used (P-AXIS-00005, P- AXIS-00006 or P-AXIS-00280, P-AXIS-00281). Parameter getriebe[i].slope_profil.a_feedh Data type UNS32 Data range 1 ≤ a_feedh ≤ P-AXIS-00008 Axis types T, R Dimension T: mm/s² R: °/s² Default value 0 Drive types ---- Remarks P-AXIS-00053 is only used if parameter P-CHAN-00097 in the channel parameter list is assigned the value 1. When the parameter has the value 0, it is assigned the value of P-AXIS-00004 (a_grenz). P-AXIS-00081 Ramp time at feedhold (non-linear slope) Description When feedhold is active, ramps are often chosen steeper than for positioning and for workpiece machining (e.g. G01, G02, G03). The parameter defines the ramp time value for these cases. If the entry is missing, acceleration is set up and cancelled using the rapid motion ramp time (P-AXIS-00005, P-AXIS-00006 or P-AXIS-00280, P-AXIS-00281). Parameter getriebe[i].slope_profil.tr_feedh Data type UNS32 Data range P-AXIS-00201 ≤ tr_feedh ≤ MAX(UNS32) Axis types T, R Dimension T: µs R: µs Default value 0 Drive types ---- Remarks P-AXIS-00081 is only used if parameter P-CHAN-00097 in the channel parameter list is assigned the value 1. When the parameter has the value 0, it is assigned the value of P-AXIS-00200 (tr_grenz). P-AXIS-00154 Weighting of jerk at block transition Description At the block transition from linear to circular block or vice versa, a jump in acceleration occurs, even if there is a tangential transition. The parameter weights the permissible jerk at these types of movement transitions. Jerk is only considered if P-CHAN-00009 [} 47] is set. If P-AXIS-00154 is not set in the parameter list, the velocity is reduced to such an extent that the permissible jerk at the block transition is maintained. TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 1.06 59 Dynamic characteristics
## Page 60

Parameterisation Parameter getriebe[i].dynamik.r_trans_weight Data type UNS32 Data range 0 ≤ r_trans_weight ≤ 1000 Axis types T, R, S Dimension T: 0.1% R,S: 0.1% Default value 1000 Drive types ---- Remarks This parameter is only considered if the non-linear slope is used and for circular - linear, circular - circular or linear - circular transitions. To define the slope type, see • P-CHAN-00071 [} 48] • program command #SLOPE [ TYPE=…] P-AXIS-00195 Ramp time for acceleration down-gradation (non-linear slope) Description The parameter defines the acceleration ramp time for the down-gradation of acceleration P-AXIS-00001. Parameter getriebe[i].slope_profil.tr_beschl_ab Data type UNS32 Data range P-AXIS-00201 ≤ tr_beschl_ab ≤ MAX(UNS32) Axis types T, R, S Dimension T: µs R,S: µs Default value 50000 drive types. ---- Remarks The ramp time can be changed in the NC program. The appropriate NC commands are described in [PROG//Ramp time weighting (G132/G133/G134/G233/G338/ G339) ] in greater detail. P-AXIS-00196 Ramp time for acceleration up-gradation (non-linear slope) Description The parameter defines the acceleration ramp time for the up-gradation of the acceleration P-AXIS-00001. Parameter getriebe[i].slope_profil.tr_beschl_zu Data type UNS32 Data range P-AXIS-00201 ≤ tr_beschl_zu ≤ MAX(UNS32) Axis types T, R, S Dimension T: µs R,S: µs Default value 50000 drive types. ---- Remarks The ramp time can be changed in the NC program. The appropriate NC commands are described in [PROG//Ramp time weighting (G132/G133/G134/G233/G338/ G339) ] in greater detail. The default value for ramp time weighting can be defined in P-CHAN-00073 [} 48]. P-AXIS-00197 Ramp time for deceleration down-gradation (non-linear slope) Description The parameter defines the acceleration ramp time for the down-gradation of deceleration P-AXIS-00002. Parameter getriebe[i].slope_profil.tr_brems_ab Data type UNS32 Data range P-AXIS-00201 ≤ tr_brems_ab ≤ MAX(UNS32) Axis types T, R, S Dimension T: µs R,S: µs Default value 50000 60 Version: 1.06 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Dynamic characteristics
## Page 61

Parameterisation drive types. ---- Remarks The ramp time can be changed in the NC program. The appropriate NC commands are described in [PROG//Ramp time weighting (G132/G133/G134/G233/G338/ G339) ] in greater detail. P-AXIS-00198 Ramp time for deceleration up-gradation (non-linear slope) Description The parameter defines the acceleration ramp time for the up-gradation of deceleration P-AXIS-00002. Parameter getriebe[i].slope_profil.tr_brems_zu Data type UNS32 Data range P-AXIS-00201 ≤ tr_brems_zu ≤ MAX(UNS32) Axis types T, R, S Dimension T: µs R,S: µs Default value 50000 drive types. ---- Remarks The ramp time can be changed in the NC program. The appropriate NC commands are described in [PROG//Ramp time weighting (G132/G133/G134/G233/G338/ G339) ] in greater detail. P-AXIS-00199 Geometric ramp time Description The parameter defines the permissible geometric ramp time. This parameter limits axis jerk caused by the programmed contour. Parameter getriebe[i].dynamik.tr_geom Data type UNS32 Data range 0 (Preset of minimum ramp time, application-specific) ≤ tr_geom ≤ MAX(UNS32) Axis types T, R, S Dimension T: µs R,S: µs Default value 10000 drive types. ---- Remarks The ramp time can be changed in the NC program. The appropriate NC commands are described in [PROG//Ramp time weighting (G132/G133/G134/G233/G338/ G339)] in greater detail. P-AXIS-00200 Ramp time at rapid movement (non-linear slope) Description This ramp time parameter is active at programmed rapid traverse (G00) for acceleration and deceleration. In this case, it replaces the 2 ramp times for acceleration (P-AXIS-00195, P-AXIS-00196) or the 2 ramp times for deceleration (P- AXIS-00197, P-AXIS-00198). Parameter getriebe[i].slope_profil.tr_grenz Data type UNS32 Data range P-AXIS-00201 ≤ tr_grenz ≤ MAX(UNS32) Axis types T, R, S Dimension T: µs R,S: µs Default value 10000 Drive types ---- Remarks The ramp time can be changed in the NC program. The appropriate NC commands are described in [PROG//G233] in greater detail. P-AXIS-00201 Minimum permissible ramp time Description The parameter defines the minimum permissible ramp time of the drive. This parameter limits the axis jerk arising due to velocity profile. Parameter getriebe[i].dynamik.tr_min TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 1.06 61 Dynamic characteristics
## Page 62

Parameterisation Data type UNS32 Data range 0 (Preset of minimum ramp time, application-specific) ≤ tr_min ≤ MAX(UNS32) Axis types T, R, S Dimension T: µs R,S: µs Default value 10000 Drive types ---- Remarks P-AXIS-00286 Ramp time during homing Description The parameter includes the ramp time during CNC-controlled homing and active non-linear slope profile (see P-AXIS-00270). If the parameter is 0 or too small, the value of P-AXIS-00201(tr_min) is adopted. Parameter getriebe[i].tr_ref Data type UNS32 Data range P-AXIS-00201 ≤ tr_ref ≤ MAX(UNS32) Axis types T, R Dimension T: µs R: µs Default value 0 Drive types Simulation, Conventional, Terminal, Lightbus, Profidrive Remarks If the parameter is assigned the value 0, the value in P-AXIS-00201(tr_min) is adopted. 3.2.2.4 Parameters for manual mode P-AXIS-00009 Maximum acceleration for manual operation without parallel interpolation Description The parameter defines the maximum acceleration for manual operation mode. Parameter handbetrieb.hb.a_max Data type UNS32 Data range 0 ≤ a_max ≤ P-AXIS-00008 Axis types T, R Dimension T: mm/s² R: °/s² Default value 1000 Drive types ---- Remarks P-AXIS-00082 Acceleration part of manual operation with parallel interpolation Description The parameter defines the acceleration part of manual operation mode at the permissible axis acceleration. Parameter handbetrieb.ipo.hb_proz_a_max Data type UNS16 Data range 0 … 100 Axis types T, R Dimension T: % R: % Default value 30 Drive types ---- Remarks P-AXIS-00083 Velocity part of manual operation with parallel interpolation Description The parameter defines the velocity part of manual operation mode at the permissible axis velocity. Parameter handbetrieb.ipo.hb_proz_v_max 62 Version: 1.06 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Dynamic characteristics
## Page 63

Parameterisation Data type UNS16 Data range 0 … 100 Axis types T, R Dimension T: % R: % Default value 30 Drive types ---- Remarks P-AXIS-00094 Acceleration part of interpolation Description The parameter defines the acceleration part of interpolation at permissible axis acceleration. Parameter handbetrieb.ipo.ipo_proz_a_max Data type UNS16 Data range 0 … 100 Axis types T, R Dimension T: % R: % Default value 70 Drive types ---- Remarks P-AXIS-00082 (hb_proz_a_max) and P-AXIS-00094 (ipo_proz_a_max) together must be 100%. P-AXIS-00095 Velocity part of interpolation Description The parameter defines the velocity part of interpolation at the permissible axis velocity. Parameter handbetrieb.ipo.ipo_proz_v_max Data type UNS16 Data range 0 … 100 Axis types T, R Dimension T: % R: % Default value 70 Drive types ---- Remarks P-AXIS-00083 (hb_proz_v_max) and P-AXIS-00095 (ipo_proz_v_max) together must be 100%. P-AXIS-00213 Maximum velocity for manual operation without parallel interpolation Description The parameter defines the maximum velocity for manual operation mode. Parameter handbetrieb.hb.vb_max Data type UNS32 Data range 0 < vb_max ≤ P-AXIS-00212 Axis types T, R Dimension T: µm/s R: 0,001°/s Default value 166666 Drive types ---- Remarks P-AXIS-00259 Feedhold acceleration for manual operation without parallel interpolation Description The parameter defines the acceleration with active feedhold for manual operation mode. When the parameter has the value 0, it is assigned the value of P- AXIS-00009 (handbetrieb.hb.a_max). Parameter handbetrieb.hb.a_feedh Data type UNS32 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 1.06 63 Dynamic characteristics
## Page 64

Parameterisation Data range 0 ≤ a_feedh ≤ P-AXIS-00008 Axis types T, R Dimension T: mm/s² R: °/s² Default value 0 Drive types ---- Remarks P-AXIS-00359 Ramp time during maximum acceleration for manual operation without parallel interpolation Description The parameter defines the ramp time in basic mode for manual operation mode. Value 0 means linear slope (default). Parameter handbetrieb.hb.tr Data type UNS32 Data range P-AXIS-00201 ≤ tr ≤ MAX(UNS32) Axis types T, R Dimension T: µs R: µs Default value 0 Drive types ---- Remarks P-AXIS-00360 Ramp time at feedhold for manual operation without parallel interpolation Description The parameter defines the ramp time during active feedhold for manual operation mode. Parameter handbetrieb.hb.tr_feedh Data type UNS32 Data range P-AXIS-00201 [} 61] ≤ tr_feedh ≤ MAX(UNS32) Axis types T, R Dimension T: µs R: µs Default value 0 Drive types ---- Remarks P-AXIS-00259 is output and P-AXIS-00360 is only used if parameter P- CHAN-00097 in the channel parameter list is assigned the value 1. P-AXIS-00541 Maximum delay for manual operation without parallel interpolation Description The parameter defines the maximum delay for manual operation mode. When the parameter has the value 0, it is assigned the value of P-AXIS-00009 (handbetrieb.hb.a_max). Parameter handbetrieb.hb.d_max Data type UNS32 Data range 0 < d_max ≤ P-AXIS-00008 Axis types T, R Dimension T: mm/s² R: °/s² Default value 0 Drive types ---- Remarks P-AXIS-00545 Reduced maximum acceleration for manual operation without parallel interpolation Description The parameter defines the active acceleration for manual mode with an active PLC control signal via the control unit Activation of reduced manual mode acceleration (bahn_mc_control.reduced_acceleration). 64 Version: 1.06 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Dynamic characteristics
## Page 65

Parameterisation Parameter handbetrieb.hb.a_max_red Data type UNS32 Data range 0 < a_max_red ≤ P-AXIS-00008 Axis types T, R Dimension T: mm/s² R: °/s² Default value 1000 drive types. ---- Remarks 3.3 Channel list example Excerpt from the channel parameter list Units: Acceleration in [mm/min2], velocity in [mm/min], weighting values in per mil slope.profile 0 slope.ramp_time 0 slope.acceleration 0 max_vb_override 1000 check_jerk_on_poly_path 0 corr_v_trans_jerk 0 use_drive_curr_limit 1 vector.acceleration 1800000 vector.velocity 1500 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 1.06 65 Dynamic characteristics
## Page 66

Parameterisation 3.4 Axis list example Excerpt from the axis parameter list Units: Acceleration in [mm/s2 or °/s2], velocity in [μm/s or 1E-3 °/s], ramp time in [μs], weighting values in per mil. General limits: getriebe[0].dynamik.vb_max 1000000 getriebe[0].dynamik.a_max 6000 getriebe[i].dynamik.a_emergency.......................6000 getriebe[0].vb_eilgang 1000000 getriebe[0].vb_max_red 40000 getriebe[0].rapid_speed_red 40000 getriebe[0].vb_max_red_zone 20000 getriebe[0].vb_reflow 10000 getriebe[0].vb_refmax 150000 getriebe[0].a_ref 1000 Trapezoidal/sine-square acceleration profile getriebe[0].slope_profil.a_beschl 1000 getriebe[0].slope_profil.a_brems 1000 getriebe[0].slope_profil.tr_beschl_zu 50000 getriebe[0].slope_profil.tr_beschl_ab 50000 getriebe[0].slope_profil.tr_brems_zu 50000 getriebe[0].slope_profil.tr_brems_ab 50000 getriebe[0].slope_profil.a_grenz 2500 getriebe[0].slope_profil.tr_grenz 10000 getriebe[0].slope_profil.a_feedh 6000 getriebe[0].slope_profil.tr_feedh 10000 getriebe[0].dynamik.tr_min 5000 getriebe[0].dynamik.tr_geom 5000 getriebe[0].dynamik.a_trans_weight 0 getriebe[0].dynamik.r_trans_weight 0 getriebe[0].tr_ref 100000 Step-shaped acceleration profile getriebe[0].lslope_profil.a_stufe_1 1000 getriebe[0].lslope_profil.a_stufe_2 1000 getriebe[0].lslope_profil.vb_stufe_1_2 1000000 getriebe[0].lslope_profil.a_grenz_stufe_1 5000 getriebe[0].lslope_profil.a_grenz_stufe_2 5000 getriebe[0].lslope_profil.vb_grenz_stufe_1_2 1000000 getriebe[0].lslope_profil.a_feedh 1500 66 Version: 1.06 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Dynamic characteristics
## Page 67

Support and Service 4 Support and Service Beckhoff and their partners around the world offer comprehensive support and service, making available fast and competent assistance with all questions related to Beckhoff products and system solutions. Download finder Our download finder contains all the files that we offer you for downloading. You will find application reports, technical documentation, technical drawings, configuration files and much more. The downloads are available in various formats. Beckhoff's branch offices and representatives Please contact your Beckhoff branch office or representative for local support and service on Beckhoff products! The addresses of Beckhoff's branch offices and representatives round the world can be found on our internet page: www.beckhoff.com You will also find further documentation for Beckhoff components there. Beckhoff Support Support offers you comprehensive technical assistance, helping you not only with the application of individual Beckhoff products, but also with other, wide-ranging services: • support • design, programming and commissioning of complex automation systems • and extensive training program for Beckhoff system components Hotline: +49 5246 963-157 e-mail: support@beckhoff.com Beckhoff Service The Beckhoff Service Center supports you in all matters of after-sales service: • on-site service • repair service • spare parts service • hotline service Hotline: +49 5246 963-460 e-mail: service@beckhoff.com Beckhoff Headquarters Beckhoff Automation Gmb H & Co. KG Huelshorstweg 20 33415 Verl Germany Phone: +49 5246 963-0 e-mail: info@beckhoff.com web: www.beckhoff.com TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 1.06 67 Dynamic characteristics
## Page 68

Index Index P P-CHAN-00199 51 P-CHAN-00200 51 P-AXIS-00001 58 P-CHAN-00208 51 P-AXIS-00002 58 P-CHAN-00351 52 P-AXIS-00003 52 P-AXIS-00004 58 P-AXIS-00005 55 P-AXIS-00006 56 P-AXIS-00008 52 P-AXIS-00009 62 P-AXIS-00011 56 P-AXIS-00012 56 P-AXIS-00013 58 P-AXIS-00024 57 P-AXIS-00030 52 P-AXIS-00053 59 P-AXIS-00081 59 P-AXIS-00082 62 P-AXIS-00083 62 P-AXIS-00094 63 P-AXIS-00095 63 P-AXIS-00154 59 P-AXIS-00155 53 P-AXIS-00195 60 P-AXIS-00196 60 P-AXIS-00197 60 P-AXIS-00198 61 P-AXIS-00199 61 P-AXIS-00200 61 P-AXIS-00201 61 P-AXIS-00209 53 P-AXIS-00211 57 P-AXIS-00212 53 P-AXIS-00213 63 P-AXIS-00214 54 P-AXIS-00218 54 P-AXIS-00219 55 P-AXIS-00221 57 P-AXIS-00259 63 P-AXIS-00285 55 P-AXIS-00286 62 P-AXIS-00359 64 P-AXIS-00360 64 P-AXIS-00503 55 P-AXIS-00541 64 P-AXIS-00545 64 P-CHAN-00001 47 P-CHAN-00002 47 P-CHAN-00009 47 P-CHAN-00056 47 P-CHAN-00071 48 P-CHAN-00073 48 P-CHAN-00078 48 P-CHAN-00090 49 P-CHAN-00097 49 P-CHAN-00110 49 P-CHAN-00195 50 P-CHAN-00196 50 P-CHAN-00197 50 P-CHAN-00198 51 68 Version: 1.06 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Dynamic characteristics
## Page 70

More Information: www.beckhoff.com/TF5200 Beckhoff Automation Gmb H & Co. KG Hülshorstweg 20 33415 Verl Germany Phone: +49 5246 9630 info@beckhoff.com www.beckhoff.com
