---
title: "TF5200_commissioning_kinematic_transformation_en"
product: "TF5200"
category: "Motion_Control"
tags: ["NC"]
language: "EN"
document_type: "Manual"
version: "1.05"
source_pdf: "https://download.beckhoff.com/download/Document/automation/twincat3/TF5200_commissioning_kinematic_transformation_en.pdf"
release_date: "2025-06-05"
---
Manual | EN TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Commissioning of the kinematic transformation 6/5/2025 | Version: 1.05
## Page 3

Notes on the documentation Notes on the documentation This description is only intended for the use of trained specialists in control and automation engineering who are familiar with the applicable national standards. It is essential that the documentation and the following notes and explanations are followed when installing and commissioning the components. It is the duty of the technical personnel to use the documentation published at the respective time of each installation and commissioning. The responsible staff must ensure that the application or use of the products described satisfy all the requirements for safety, including all the relevant laws, regulations, guidelines and standards. Disclaimer The documentation has been prepared with care. The products described are, however, constantly under development. We reserve the right to revise and change the documentation at any time and without prior announcement. No claims for the modification of products that have already been supplied may be made on the basis of the data, diagrams and descriptions in this documentation. Trademarks Beckhoff®, Twin CAT®, Twin CAT/BSD®, TC/BSD®, Ether CAT®, Ether CAT G®, Ether CAT G10®, Ether CAT P®, Safety over Ether CAT®, Twin SAFE®, XFC®, XTS® and XPlanar® are registered trademarks of and licensed by Beckhoff Automation Gmb H. Other designations used in this publication may be trademarks whose use by third parties for their own purposes could violate the rights of the owners. Patent Pending The Ether CAT technology is patent protected, in particular by the following applications and patents: EP1590927, EP1789857, EP1456722, EP2137893, DE102015105702 with corresponding applications or registrations in various other countries. Ether CAT® is registered trademark and patented technology, licensed by Beckhoff Automation Gmb H, Germany Copyright © Beckhoff Automation Gmb H & Co. KG, Germany. The reproduction, distribution and utilisation of this document as well as the communication of its contents to others without express authorisation are prohibited. Offenders will be held liable for the payment of damages. All rights reserved in the event of the grant of a patent, utility model or design. TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 1.05 3 Commissioning of the kinematic trans- formation
## Page 4

General and safety instructions General and safety instructions Icons used and their meanings This documentation uses the following icons next to the safety instruction and the associated text. Please read the (safety) instructions carefully and comply with them at all times. Icons in explanatory text 1. Indicates an action. ð Indicates an action statement. DANGER Acute danger to life! If you fail to comply with the safety instruction next to this icon, there is immediate danger to human life and health. CAUTION Personal injury and damage to machines! If you fail to comply with the safety instruction next to this icon, it may result in personal injury or damage to machines. NOTICE Restriction or error This icon describes restrictions or warns of errors. Tips and other notes This icon indicates information to assist in general understanding or to provide additional informa- tion. General example Example that clarifies the text. NC programming example Programming example (complete NC program or program sequence) of the described function or NC com- mand. Specific version information Optional or restricted function. The availability of this function depends on the configuration and the scope of the version. 4 Version: 1.05 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Commissioning of the kinematic trans- formation
## Page 5

Table of contents Table of contents Notes on the documentation.................................................................................................................... 3 General and safety instructions.............................................................................................................. 4 1 Machines with kinematic transformation................................................................................................ 8 1.1 Commissioning of the transformation................................................................................................ 8 1.2 General approach for machine commissioning................................................................................. 8 1.2.1 Activating transformation.................................................................................................... 9 1.2.2 Implicit selection/cancelation of kinematic transformation............................................... 10 1.2.3 Parameterising the kinematics via the NC program......................................................... 10 1.2.4 Checking the settings in the case of five-axis kinematics................................................ 11 2 Examples for machine kinematics........................................................................................................ 12 2.1 Transformation for 5-axis machine with rotary table....................................................................... 12 2.1.1 Kinematic structure.......................................................................................................... 12 2.1.2 Aligning the axis systems................................................................................................. 13 2.2 Transformation for Tripod strut kinematic with fixed strut length..................................................... 16 2.2.1 Kinematic structure.......................................................................................................... 16 2.3 Transformation for articulated robot................................................................................................ 18 2.3.1 Kinematic structure, Axis configuration............................................................................ 19 2.3.2 Translatory kinematic offsets........................................................................................... 20 2.3.3 Rotary kinematic offsets................................................................................................... 21 2.3.4 Tool offsets....................................................................................................................... 23 2.3.5 Sample parameterisation for a KUKA KR210.................................................................. 23 3 Support and Service............................................................................................................................... 25 Index......................................................................................................................................................... 26 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 5 Commissioning of the kinematic trans- formation
## Page 6

Table of contents 6 Version: TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Commissioning of the kinematic trans- formation
## Page 7

List of figures List of figures Fig. 1 Kinematic structure of the single-column bed machine................................................................ 12 Fig. 2 Coordinate systems and motion directions.................................................................................. 13 Fig. 3 Kinematic offsets.......................................................................................................................... 14 Fig. 4 Tripod kinematics......................................................................................................................... 16 Fig. 5 Offset dimensions of strut kinematics.......................................................................................... 17 Fig. 6 Axis configuration of the kinematic............................................................................................... 19 Fig. 7 Example for param[13]=0 degrees, param[14]=0 degrees.......................................................... 21 Fig. 8 Example for param[13]=-90 degrees, param[14]=90 degrees..................................................... 22 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 1.05 7 Commissioning of the kinematic trans- formation
## Page 8

Machines with kinematic transformation 1 Machines with kinematic transformation 1.1 Commissioning of the transformation Phases of commissioning The following phases must be run through when commissioning a kinematic transformation: 1. Identifying the kinematic structure (comparison with structures in [KITRA]) 2. Determining kinematic offsets 3. Parameterising the kinematics 4. Verification (checking on the basis of machine axis movements) 1.2 General approach for machine commissioning Basic steps 1. Unless already done: Commission the axis systems and mechanically align the machine's axes ac- cording to the machine structure. In particular, pay attention to the correct motion direction of the ma- chine axes so that the machine behaves during conventional operation (2.5D) in the way the user is accustomed to. (e.g. X100 leads to position 100 in WCS). 2. Select a suitable kinematic transformation according to the kinematic structure of the machine [TRAFO]. 3. Check whether the license for transformations is present. 4. In keeping with the description of the kinematic structure (5-axis arrangement X, Y, Z, C, A), the con- tinuous axis configuration of the machine must be created via the channel-specific list. 5. Measure the kinematic offsets and enter them into the assigned transformation parameters (channel parameter list). 6. Define default kinematics (channel parameter list). 7. After RPF→ selection of the kinematic transformation and programming of the orientation (e.g. rotat- ory axes A30, B45), the tool tip position must remain fixed in space. 8 Version: 1.05 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Commissioning of the kinematic trans- formation
## Page 9

Machines with kinematic transformation 1.2.1 Activating transformation Possibilities of selection After referencing of the machine (if necessary), the required transformation can be selected and cancelled via the NC program as follows. Example 1 N10 #TRAFO ON N20 X100 Y100 A0 N30 Z10 C0 N40 #TRAFO OFF If different kinematics are possible for a machine (e.g. tool heads that can be changed in), the kinematic can be selected via the tool selection or can be explicitly programmed in the NC program. In the case of selection via the tool (e.g. D1 T1), the tool must be assigned a kinematics ID != 0 in the tool list. Example 2 N05 #KIN ID[5] N10 #TRAFO ON N20 X100 Y100 A0 N30 Z10 C0 N40 #TRAFO OFF Example 3: N05 D1 T1 N10 #TRAFO ON N20 X100 Y100 A0 N30 Z10 C0 N40 #TRAFO OFF TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 1.05 9 Commissioning of the kinematic trans- formation
## Page 10

Machines with kinematic transformation 1.2.2 Implicit selection/cancelation of kinematic transformation Configuring implicit selection/deselection For some machine types, it makes sense to only program movement in the WCS. Programmed selection/ deselection within the NC program can be dropped by means of implicit selection/deselection in the CNC controller. Automatic selection/deselection is achieved via the following channel-specific parameter list entries: auto_enable_kin_trafo 1 ( automatic selection auto_disable_kin_trafo 0 ( automatic deselection 1.2.3 Parameterising the kinematics via the NC program Change kinematics offsets in the NC program When transformation is inactive, all kinematics offsets can also be influenced via the NC program. For safety reasons, however, this should be left to well-versed users. Example 4: N05 #KIN ID[12] N10 V. G. KIN[12]. PARAM[0]= 500000 (* WZ offset *) N10 #TRAFO ON N20 X100 Y100 N30 Z20 N40 #TRAFO OFF 10 Version: 1.05 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Commissioning of the kinematic trans- formation
## Page 11

Machines with kinematic transformation 1.2.4 Checking the settings in the case of five-axis kinematics 1.2.4.1 Zero setting the rotatory B axis in the tool 1. Clamp long centre point (125mm) into spindle. 2. Allow dial gauge (90 increments offset by z) to touch the tool close to the clamping-in point. 3. Move machine up in positive Z position. When the tool stands straight, there must be no noteworthy deviation recognizable on the dial gauge (a 0.1 degree angular error produces a 0.1745 mm position error in the case of a 100 mm tool length). 1.2.4.2 Setting the zero position of the rotatory C axis in the tool 1. Axis A or B in 90 degrees position. 2. Position dial gauge on tool as mentioned in 1.2.4.1. 3. Depending on the axis, move in the case of B -> Y axis or A ->X axis and check deviations on the dial gauge. 1.2.4.3 Zero setting the rotatory C axis in the workpiece 1. Clamp in a cuboid workpiece with parallel side faces 2. Secure a dial gauge on the tool carrier and lean it against the side face of the workpiece. 3. Move the machine in the X or Y direction and check the deviation on the dial gauge. TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 1.05 11 Commissioning of the kinematic trans- formation
## Page 12

Examples for machine kinematics 2 Examples for machine kinematics 2.1 Transformation for 5-axis machine with rotary table 2.1.1 Kinematic structure +Z +B -Z -B -X -Y +C -C +Y +X Z w Y X w w Fig. 1: Kinematic structure of the single-column bed machine Machine type: 5-axis machine (5 axes + spindle) Axis identifiers as per the machine labelling Axes in the tool: Z, B, (spindle S) Axes in the workpiece X, Y, C Axis configuration in the sda_mds.lis: X, Y, Z, B, C 12 Version: 1.05 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Commissioning of the kinematic trans- formation
## Page 13

Examples for machine kinematics 2.1.2 Aligning the axis systems • Clamp centre point into spindle chuck. • B axis zero point: Use a protractor or a try-square to align the rotatory axis B in the tool so that the centre point is oriented perpendicular to the turntable face of C. • Zero point of X and Y axes: Position X and Y so that the centre point (clamped into the spindle) is flush with the rotary axis of C. • Z axis zero point: The zero point of the Z axis cannot be approached. This transpires whenever the rotary axis of the B axis lies on the C axis. Place the centre point on the turntable via positioning of Z. Determine the offset from the turntable surface C up to the centre or the B axis. Subtract this offset from the current position→ results in the zero position in the current coordinate system. • C axis zero point: This can be selected freely depending on the later turntable support with workpiece fastening (see turntable coordinate system). The easiest thing is to position fastening holes in the C axis to a flush position with the direction of the X or Y machine axes. • Figure 2 shows the resulting positive motion direction of the translatory machine axes and the rotation direction of the rotatory machine axes. Note that the machine can also be moved correctly in the conventional 2.5 D mode. For example, the turntable with the workpiece moves to the left when X100 is programmed! Fig. 2: Coordinate systems and motion directions TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 1.05 13 Commissioning of the kinematic trans- formation
## Page 14

Examples for machine kinematics Z Z w w - + A B - + HD1 TL Y X w w Fig. 3: Kinematic offsets Kinematic ID Axis sequence 1 X, Y, Z, B, C Offset parameters List parameters Meaning HD1 kinematik[1].param[0] z axis offset zero point until rotation point B axis Axis configuration and kinematic offsets Excerpt from the channel parameter list: # Define axis configuration # ================================= gruppe[0].achse[0].log_achs_nr 1 gruppe[0].achse[0].bezeichnung X # gruppe[0].achse[1].log_achs_nr 2 gruppe[0].achse[1].bezeichnung Y # gruppe[0].achse[2].log_achs_nr 3 gruppe[0].achse[2].bezeichnung Z # gruppe[0].achse[3].log_achs_nr 4 gruppe[0].achse[3].bezeichnung B # gruppe[0].achse[4].log_achs_nr 5 gruppe[0].achse[4].bezeichnung C # # Define kinematic parameters # ================================= kinematik_id 1 ( Define the default ID # Offsets in 0.1 μm trafo[0].id 1 ( Type 1 for 5-axis kinematic P-CHAN-00262 14 Version: 1.05 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Commissioning of the kinematic trans- formation
## Page 15

Examples for machine kinematics trafo[0].param[0] 1450000 (Tool clamping point offset up to rotation point B axis trafo[0].param[1] 0 trafo[0].param[2] 0 trafo[0].param[3] 0 trafo[0].param[4] 0 trafo[0].param[5] 0 trafo[0].param[6] 0 … It is essential to specify the value of P-CHAN-00262. If this parameter is not set, when the transformation is selected with #TRAFO ON, error ID 21630 is output. TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 1.05 15 Commissioning of the kinematic trans- formation
## Page 16

Examples for machine kinematics 2.2 Transformation for Tripod strut kinematic with fixed strut length 2.2.1 Kinematic structure +Z3 -Z3 +Z2 +Z1 -Z2 -Z1 Z w Y w X w Fig. 4: Tripod kinematics Machine type: 3-axis machine (3 axes + spindle) Axis identifiers as per the machine labelling 16 Version: 1.05 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Commissioning of the kinematic trans- formation
## Page 17

Examples for machine kinematics Axes in the tool: Z1, Z2, Z3,(Spindle B) Axes in the workpiece - Axis configuration in the sda_mds.lis: X, Y, Z Fig. 5: Offset dimensions of strut kinematics Kinematic ID Axis sequence 12 X, Y, Z (Z1, Z2, Z3) Parameter TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 1.05 17 Commissioning of the kinematic trans- formation
## Page 18

Examples for machine kinematics Offset list Meaning HD1 trafo[1].param[0] Tool offset Z HD2 trafo[1].param[1] Tool offset X HD3 trafo[1].param[2] Tool offset Y HD4 trafo[1].param[3] Z offset machine axis zero origin. HD5 trafo[1].param[4] Radius to connecting line of the joint centre points on the drive columns (large circle) HD6 trafo[1].param[5] Radius to connecting line of the joint centre points on the holder platform (small circle) HD7 trafo[1].param[6] Strut length to each joint centre point HD8 trafo[1].param[7] Switch for switching to non-ideal tripod (enable HD9 / HD 10) HD9 trafo[1].param[8] Angle column / joint 3 to column / joint 1 HD10 trafo[1].param[9] Angle column / joint 3 to column / joint 2 Axis configuration and kinematic offsets Excerpt from the channel parameter list: # Define axis configuration # ================================= gruppe[0].achse[0].log_achs_nr 1 gruppe[0].achse[0].bezeichnung X # gruppe[0].achse[1].log_achs_nr 2 gruppe[0].achse[1].bezeichnung Y # gruppe[0].achse[2].log_achs_nr 3 gruppe[0].achse[2].bezeichnung Z # # Define kinematic parameters # ================================= # Offsets in 0.1 μm # # Parameterising the tripod trafo[1].id 12 ( Tripod P-CHAN-00262 trafo[1].param[0] 500000 trafo[1].param[1] 0 trafo[1].param[2] 0 trafo[1].param[3] 9100000 trafo[1].param[4] 4585000 trafo[1].param[5] 725900 trafo[1].param[6] 7020000 It is essential to specify the value of P-CHAN-00262. If this parameter is not set, when the transformation is selected with #TRAFO ON, error ID 21630 is output. 2.3 Transformation for articulated robot List parameters Meaning trafo[1].id Defining the ID for this kinematic trafo[1].id 45 ( Define the kinematic type 45 P-CHAN-00262 # # If only the ID is specified, the type of the transformation P-CHAN-00829 is automatically assigned the value of the ID or trafo[1].id 4711 trafo[1].type 45 18 Version: 1.05 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Commissioning of the kinematic trans- formation
## Page 19

Examples for machine kinematics In this variant, the NC command (#KIN ID[4711] or the default setting must be used to assign this ID (P- CHAN-00032). Advantage of this variant: Multiple identical kinematic types can be created in one configuration file. It is essential to specify the value of P-CHAN-00262. If this parameter is not set, when the transformation is selected with #TRAFO ON, error ID 21630 is output. 2.3.1 Kinematic structure, Axis configuration Kinematic ID 45 Fig. 6: Axis configuration of the kinematic Axis configuration in the NC channel Axis identifier X, Y, Z, A, B, C (G1, G2, G3, G4, G5, G6) Axis index 0, 1, 2, 3, 4.5 Kinematic structure Tool axes Workpiece axes NC axes X, Y, Z, A, B, C - Peculiarities The articulated axes are numbered consecutively from 1 to 6 (starting with the first axis which rotates about the z axis of the Cartesian space coordinate system). The robot is in the zero position of the articulated axes. TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 1.05 19 Commissioning of the kinematic trans- formation
## Page 20

Examples for machine kinematics Establish a continuous axis configuration with 6 axes X, Y, Z, A, B, C. corresponding to the axis sequence specified. Establish the correct mathematically positive rotation direction of the articulated axes according to the space coordinate system. All articulated axes of the robot except for the hand axes A4 and A6 are linear axes. The axes G4 and G6 are modulo axes with ranges of 0 to 180, 0 to -180 degrees. If no trailing cables have to be taken into account, articulated axis G1 can also be set as a modulo axis. Check whether the hand axes G4 to G6 are coupled mechanically via gearing. If this is the case, electronic gear compensation is necessary in the CNC! 2.3.2 Translatory kinematic offsets HD9 A3 A5 A6 HD12 HD10 HD8 A2 HD7 Z X HD11 A1 List parameters Meaning trafo[1].param[10] X offset of origin of Cartesian space KS to rotation point articulated axis 2 trafo[1].param[6] Z offset of origin of Cartesian space KS to rotation point articulated axis 2 trafo[1].param[31] Y offset between rotary axis 4 and rotary axis 1 trafo[1].param[7] Z offset from rotary axis joint 2 to rotary axis joint 3 trafo[1].param[11] Z offset from rotary axis joint 3 to rotary axis joint 5 trafo[1].param[8] X offset from rotary axis joint 3 to rotary axis joint 5 trafo[1].param[9] X offset from manual axis joint 5 to flange surface on joint 6 A4 A1 HD32 Y X 20 Version: 1.05 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Commissioning of the kinematic trans- formation
## Page 21

Examples for machine kinematics 2.3.3 Rotary kinematic offsets 2.3.3.1 Angle offset These are required to match the zero position of the internal robot model in the kinematic transformation to the physical zero position of the actual robot. In the examples given below, the articulated axis positions are 0 in each case. List parameters Meaning trafo[1].param[13] Rotary offset for zero position of robot joint axis 2 trafo[1].param[14] Rotary offset for zero position of robot joint axis 3 A3 A2 A5 A6 Z X Fig. 7: Example for param[13]=0 degrees, param[14]=0 degrees TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 1.05 21 Commissioning of the kinematic trans- formation
## Page 22

Examples for machine kinematics Fig. 8: Example for param[13]=-90 degrees, param[14]=90 degrees 2.3.3.2 Direction of rotation These were used for matching the rotation directions of the internal robot model in the kinematic transformation to the physical rotation directions of the actual robot. In default position, all the articulated axes in zero position of the robot rotate about the Cartesian Y axis in a mathematically positive direction. List parameters Meaning trafo[1].param[20] Rotation direction of C axis 1, 0: positive, 1: negative trafo[1].param[21] Rotation direction of C axis 2, 0: positive, 1: negative trafo[1].param[22] Rotation direction of C axis 3, 0: positive, 1: negative trafo[1].param[23] Rotation direction of C axis 4, 0: positive, 1: negative trafo[1].param[24] Rotation direction of C axis 5, 0: positive, 1: negative trafo[1].param[25] Rotation direction of C axis 6, 0: positive, 1: negative 22 Version: 1.05 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Commissioning of the kinematic trans- formation
## Page 23

Examples for machine kinematics 2.3.3.3 Flange coordinate system For compatibility reasons, the orientation of the flange coordinate system can be changed back from variant 1 (standard) to variant 2. List parameters Meaning kinematik[45].param[30] 0: Variant 1, default (KUKA, Stäubli) 1: Variant 2 2.3.4 Tool offsets The following parameters are available for a tool flanged to robot axis 6. List parameters Meaning trafo[1].param[0] Tool offset in Z direction of effector trafo[1].param[1] Tool offset in X direction of effector trafo[1].param[2] Tool offset in Y direction of effector trafo[1].param[3] Tool rotation about the X’’ axis trafo[1].param[4] Tool rotation about the Y’ axis trafo[1].param[5] Tool rotation about the Z axis 2.3.5 Sample parameterisation for a KUKA KR210 2.3.5.1 Axis configuration gruppe[0].bezeichnung IPO_1 gruppe[0].achs_anzahl 6 gruppe[0].achse[0].log_achs_nr 1 gruppe[0].achse[0].bezeichnung X gruppe[0].achse[1].log_achs_nr 2 gruppe[0].achse[1].bezeichnung Y gruppe[0].achse[2].log_achs_nr 3 gruppe[0].achse[2].bezeichnung Z gruppe[0].achse[3].log_achs_nr 4 gruppe[0].achse[3].bezeichnung A gruppe[0].achse[4].log_achs_nr 5 gruppe[0].achse[4].bezeichnung B gruppe[0].achse[5].log_achs_nr 6 gruppe[0].achse[5].bezeichnung C TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 1.05 23 Commissioning of the kinematic trans- formation
## Page 24

Examples for machine kinematics 2.3.5.2 Kinematics offsets # Robot: 6-axis articulated robot based on the example of KR210 R2700-2 # ---------------------------------------------------------- # Offset from G3 to rotation sym. axis in beam arm -115 mm # X offset from the origin to the rotation point G2 330 mm # Z offset from the origin to the rotation point G2 645 mm # Top arm length 2 1150 mm # Bottom arm length G3 to G5 1120 mm # Distance G5 to G6 215 mm # trafo[1].id 45 ( Kinematic ID P-CHAN-00262 trafo[1].param[0] 500000 ( Effector offset: Z trafo[1].param[1] 2500000 ( X trafo[1].param[2] 0 ( Y trafo[1].param[3] 0 ( Effector rotation: X'' trafo[1].param[4] 900000 (Y' trafo[1].param[5] 0 (Z trafo[1].param[6] 6450000 (Z offset from G1 to G2 trafo[1].param[7] 11500000 (Z offset from G2 to G3 trafo[1].param[8] 12200000 (X offset from G3 to G5 trafo[1].param[9] 2150000 (X offset from G5 to G6 trafo[1].param[10] 3300000 (X offset from G1 to G2 trafo[1].param[11] -1150000 (Z offset from G3 to G5 trafo[1].param[13] 0 (Angle offset zero position G2 trafo[1].param[14] 0 (Angle offset zero position G3 trafo[1].param[20] 1 (Rotation direction G1 negative trafo[1].param[21] 0 (Rotation direction G2 negative trafo[1].param[22] 0 (Rotation direction G3 negative trafo[1].param[23] 1 (Rotation direction G4 negative trafo[1].param[24] 0 (Rotation direction G5 negative trafo[1].param[25] 1 (Rotation direction G6 negative trafo[1].param[30] 0 (Old orient. of flange coordinate system trafo[1].param[31] 0 (Y offset from G4 to G1 24 Version: 1.05 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Commissioning of the kinematic trans- formation
## Page 25

Support and Service 3 Support and Service Beckhoff and their partners around the world offer comprehensive support and service, making available fast and competent assistance with all questions related to Beckhoff products and system solutions. Download finder Our download finder contains all the files that we offer you for downloading. You will find application reports, technical documentation, technical drawings, configuration files and much more. The downloads are available in various formats. Beckhoff's branch offices and representatives Please contact your Beckhoff branch office or representative for local support and service on Beckhoff products! The addresses of Beckhoff's branch offices and representatives round the world can be found on our internet page: www.beckhoff.com You will also find further documentation for Beckhoff components there. Beckhoff Support Support offers you comprehensive technical assistance, helping you not only with the application of individual Beckhoff products, but also with other, wide-ranging services: • support • design, programming and commissioning of complex automation systems • and extensive training program for Beckhoff system components Hotline: +49 5246 963-157 e-mail: support@beckhoff.com Beckhoff Service The Beckhoff Service Center supports you in all matters of after-sales service: • on-site service • repair service • spare parts service • hotline service Hotline: +49 5246 963-460 e-mail: service@beckhoff.com Beckhoff Headquarters Beckhoff Automation Gmb H & Co. KG Huelshorstweg 20 33415 Verl Germany Phone: +49 5246 963-0 e-mail: info@beckhoff.com web: www.beckhoff.com TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 1.05 25 Commissioning of the kinematic trans- formation
## Page 26

Index Index 26 Version: 1.05 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Commissioning of the kinematic trans- formation
## Page 28

More Information: www.beckhoff.com/TF5200 Beckhoff Automation Gmb H & Co. KG Hülshorstweg 20 33415 Verl Germany Phone: +49 5246 9630 info@beckhoff.com www.beckhoff.com
