---
title: "TF5200_coordinate_systems_en"
product: "TF5200"
category: "Motion_Control"
tags: ["NC"]
language: "EN"
document_type: "Manual"
version: "1.04"
source_pdf: "https://download.beckhoff.com/download/Document/automation/twincat3/TF5200_coordinate_systems_en.pdf"
release_date: "2025-06-10"
---
Functional description | EN TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Coordinate systems and offsets 6/10/2025 | Version: 1.04
## Page 3

Notes on the documentation Notes on the documentation This description is only intended for the use of trained specialists in control and automation engineering who are familiar with the applicable national standards. It is essential that the documentation and the following notes and explanations are followed when installing and commissioning the components. It is the duty of the technical personnel to use the documentation published at the respective time of each installation and commissioning. The responsible staff must ensure that the application or use of the products described satisfy all the requirements for safety, including all the relevant laws, regulations, guidelines and standards. Disclaimer The documentation has been prepared with care. The products described are, however, constantly under development. We reserve the right to revise and change the documentation at any time and without prior announcement. No claims for the modification of products that have already been supplied may be made on the basis of the data, diagrams and descriptions in this documentation. Trademarks Beckhoff®, Twin CAT®, Twin CAT/BSD®, TC/BSD®, Ether CAT®, Ether CAT G®, Ether CAT G10®, Ether CAT P®, Safety over Ether CAT®, Twin SAFE®, XFC®, XTS® and XPlanar® are registered trademarks of and licensed by Beckhoff Automation Gmb H. Other designations used in this publication may be trademarks whose use by third parties for their own purposes could violate the rights of the owners. Patent Pending The Ether CAT technology is patent protected, in particular by the following applications and patents: EP1590927, EP1789857, EP1456722, EP2137893, DE102015105702 with corresponding applications or registrations in various other countries. Ether CAT® is registered trademark and patented technology, licensed by Beckhoff Automation Gmb H, Germany Copyright © Beckhoff Automation Gmb H & Co. KG, Germany. The reproduction, distribution and utilisation of this document as well as the communication of its contents to others without express authorisation are prohibited. Offenders will be held liable for the payment of damages. All rights reserved in the event of the grant of a patent, utility model or design. TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 1.04 3 Coordinate systems and offsets
## Page 4

General and safety instructions General and safety instructions Icons used and their meanings This documentation uses the following icons next to the safety instruction and the associated text. Please read the (safety) instructions carefully and comply with them at all times. Icons in explanatory text 1. Indicates an action. ð Indicates an action statement. DANGER Acute danger to life! If you fail to comply with the safety instruction next to this icon, there is immediate danger to human life and health. CAUTION Personal injury and damage to machines! If you fail to comply with the safety instruction next to this icon, it may result in personal injury or damage to machines. NOTICE Restriction or error This icon describes restrictions or warns of errors. Tips and other notes This icon indicates information to assist in general understanding or to provide additional informa- tion. General example Example that clarifies the text. NC programming example Programming example (complete NC program or program sequence) of the described function or NC com- mand. Specific version information Optional or restricted function. The availability of this function depends on the configuration and the scope of the version. 4 Version: 1.04 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Coordinate systems and offsets
## Page 5

Table of contents Table of contents Notes on the documentation.................................................................................................................... 3 General and safety instructions.............................................................................................................. 4 1 Overview.................................................................................................................................................... 8 2 Description................................................................................................................................................ 9 2.1 Offset types..................................................................................................................................... 11 2.2 Coordinate systems........................................................................................................................ 14 2.2.1 Selecting a coordinate system (#CS)............................................................................... 14 2.2.2 Rotation in a plane (contour rotation)............................................................................... 16 2.2.3 Coordinate system for fixture adaptation (#ACS)............................................................. 17 2.2.4 Linkage of coordinate systems......................................................................................... 17 2.2.5 Effector coordinate system (#ECS).................................................................................. 18 2.2.6 Temporary transition to the machine axis coordinate system (#MCS)............................. 19 2.3 Measuring offset.............................................................................................................................. 20 2.4 Manual mode offset......................................................................................................................... 21 2.5 Position preset................................................................................................................................ 22 2.6 Reference point offset..................................................................................................................... 23 2.7 Zero offset....................................................................................................................................... 24 2.8 Tool offset....................................................................................................................................... 25 2.8.1 Tool length compensation (#TLC).................................................................................... 25 2.9 Clamp position offset....................................................................................................................... 26 2.10 Suppressing offsets......................................................................................................................... 27 3 Parameter................................................................................................................................................. 28 3.1 Overview......................................................................................................................................... 28 3.2 Axis parameters.............................................................................................................................. 28 3.3 Channel parameters........................................................................................................................ 29 4 Support and Service............................................................................................................................... 30 Index......................................................................................................................................................... 31 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 5 Coordinate systems and offsets
## Page 6

Table of contents 6 Version: TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Coordinate systems and offsets
## Page 7

List of figures List of figures Fig. 1 PCS after selecting a coordinate system..................................................................................... 9 Fig. 2 Overview of all offset types.......................................................................................................... 11 Fig. 3 Differences and selection of offsets............................................................................................. 12 Fig. 4 Selecting a CS with one offset and one rotation.......................................................................... 14 Fig. 5 Rotation of the main plane........................................................................................................... 16 Fig. 6 Select a coordinate system for fixture adaptation........................................................................ 17 Fig. 7 Combination of ACS and CS........................................................................................................ 17 Fig. 8 Machining in a slanting hole......................................................................................................... 18 Fig. 9 Measurement offset between probe signal and target point........................................................ 20 Fig. 10 Manual mode offset...................................................................................................................... 21 Fig. 11 Position preset............................................................................................................................. 22 Fig. 12 Reference point offset.................................................................................................................. 23 Fig. 13 Zero offset.................................................................................................................................... 24 Fig. 14 Tool offset.................................................................................................................................... 25 Fig. 15 Clamp position offset.................................................................................................................... 26 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 1.04 7 Coordinate systems and offsets
## Page 8

Overview 1 Overview Task By selecting a coordinate system (referred to as CS), the programming coordinate system (PCS) can be offset and rotated relative to the machine coordinate system (MCS). This permits simple NC programming even in slanted or twisted positions. Offsets, e.g. zero offsets, can also be regarded as selecting a coordinate system. Characteristics Coordinate systems (CS) and offsets are always active from selection through to deselection or when offset parameters are changed. The offsets additionally programmed while a coordinate system is active are only valid until the coordinate system is deselected. Programming and parameterisation Some of the offsets can be defined in the NC program. They include the following: • Offsets due to a coordinate system selection (#CS) • Offsets due to a measurement run (G100) • Offsets from position presets (#PSET) • Reference point offsets (G92) • Offsets due to manual mode in conjunction with parallel interpolation (/G202) The following offsets are preset in configuration lists. They can be used directly in the NC program (G54..., D..). It is also possible to use the edit option during program runtime. • Tool offsets: Parameterising using the tool parameter list [TOOL] or variable access (V. G.) • Zero offsets: Parameterising using the zero point data list [ZERO] or variable access (V. G.) • Clamping position offsets: Parameterisation by means of the clamp position offset data list [CLMP] • Mandatory note on references to other documents For the sake of clarity, links to other documents and parameters are abbreviated, e.g. [PROG] for the Programming Manual or P-AXIS-00001 for an axis parameter. For technical reasons, these links only function in the Online Help (HTML5, CHM) but not in pdf files since pdfs do not support cross-linking. 8 Version: 1.04 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Coordinate systems and offsets
## Page 9

Description 2 Description Task of the coordinate system The programming coordinate system (PCS) can be offset and rotated with respect to the machine coordinate system (MCS) by selecting a coordinate system (CS) (see figure below). This enables easy NC programming even in slanted or twisted positions. NC program coordinates refer to the PCS. Fig. 1: PCS after selecting a coordinate system TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 1.04 9 Coordinate systems and offsets
## Page 10

Description Offsets When a coordinate system is selected, an additional offset of the PCS is generated. The following offsets are available in the CNC system: • Offsets due to selection of a coordinate system • Offsets due to a measurement run • Offsets due to manual operation with parallel interpolation • Offsets due to setting an actual value • Reference point offsets • Tool offsets • Zero offsets • Clamping offsets 10 Version: 1.04 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Coordinate systems and offsets
## Page 11

Description 2.1 Offset types Overview of clamp position offsets that are selectable in parallel: Y Zero offset X BKS CS-offset Tool offset Zero offset Reference point offset Position preset Manual operation offset Y Measurement offset Clamping position offset X MKS Fig. 2: Overview of all offset types Special case in G91 mode: Newly selected offsets are only effective after the next absolute programmed position (G90) since only the specified motion path may only be travelled in the case of relative programming (G91). Tool offset exception: With appropriate parameterisation, tool offsets are travelled directly without programming a path movement when the D word (P-CHAN-00100) is selected. TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 1.04 11 Coordinate systems and offsets
## Page 12

Description Differences in definition and selection of individual offsets 12 Version: 1.04 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Coordinate systems and offsets pu-trat S noitarep O ASCII-Lists pzv_d*.lis werkz_d*.lis nullp_d*.lis Clamp pos.- Tool offset- Zero offset- offset data data data NC-Program pzv_index D... G54 G92 #PSET G101 G201 #CS Clamp pos.- G55 #ACS offset index G56 #ECS (HMI) G57 : G58 G59 G159 Manual Clamp position Reference Position Measuring mode CS- offset Tool offset Zero offset point offset preset offset offset Verschiebung Fig. 3: Differences and selection of offsets
## Page 13

Description Offsets are selected or included in calculations by the following NC commands or parameters: NC command Description #CS, Select a coordinate system #ACS, : #ECS, : #ROTATION Rotate in the plane G101 Include measuring offset in calculations G201 Include manual mode offsets in calculations #GET MANUAL OFFSETS #PSET Select position presets G92 Reference point offset G54, ... G59, G159 Select zero offsets D Tool geometry compensation Variable Description pzv_index Index for selecting position offset. This must be specified along with the NC program name when an NC program is commanded. TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 1.04 13 Coordinate systems and offsets
## Page 14

Description 2.2 Coordinate systems Coordinate systems are defined, selected and deselected by NC command. The section below deals briefly with programming. A detailed description of NC commands is contained in the Programming Manual (see PROG documentation). 2.2.1 Selecting a coordinate system (#CS) Select: #CS ON The PCS can be offset and rotated with respect to the MCS by selecting a CS. This permits simple NC programming even in slanted or twisted positions. Use of this NC command depends on the axis configuration of the machine (see Channel parameters, Section: Configuration of the path axes). Machining in a rotated PCS basically makes sense whenever existing rotary axes P-AXIS-00018 permit vertical orientation of the tool with respect to the machining surface (#TOOL ORI CS). The axis designations P-CHAN-00006 remain unchanged in the CS. z j z´ y´ 0 Rotated BKS x´ v x 0 Fig. 4: Selecting a CS with one offset and one rotation V Offset vector φ Rotation vector Effectiveness • Active until cancelled or up to program end. • Nesting/linking a CS is possible. Zero offsets and reference point offsets may be programmed in the CS during machining. They are valid until the CS is deselected; they are not saved. 14 Version: 1.04 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Coordinate systems and offsets
## Page 15

Description Deselect: #CS OFF The NC command #ROTATION is provided for simple rotations in the plane. TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 1.04 15 Coordinate systems and offsets
## Page 16

Description 2.2.2 Rotation in a plane (contour rotation) Selection: #ROTATION ON The coordinate system can be rotated within the main plane by using contour rotation. Rotation may also be applied within an already rotated coordinate system (CS, ACS). Fig. 5: Rotation of the main plane Effectiveness • Effective up to deselection or up to the end of the program. • Contour rotation acts in the main plane only on the programmed axis coordinates before all other contour-influencing functionalities, i.e. all offsets and mirror-imaging operations can be used as before. NOTICE A change of plane with G17/18/19 automatically deselects an active contour rotation. The warning P- ERR-21143 is output. Deselection: #ROTATION OFF 16 Version: 1.04 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Coordinate systems and offsets
## Page 17

Description 2.2.3 Coordinate system for fixture adaptation (#ACS) Selection: #ACS ON The fixture adaptation coordinate system ACS compensates a sloping position of the workpiece or workpiece palette. The ACS is independent of a CS. y W z W Workpiece z0 x0 x W Shifting and rotation of workpiece y 0 Processing place Fig. 6: Select a coordinate system for fixture adaptation Effectiveness • Effective up to deselection or up to the end of the program. • Zero offsets and reference point offsets may be programmed in the ACS. However, they are only valid until the ACS is deselected and they are not stored. Deselection: #ACS OFF 2.2.4 Linkage of coordinate systems Machining on a sloping plane with a workpiece in an inclined plane is possible by combining an ACS with a CS. Fig. 7: Combination of ACS and CS Effectiveness • Effective up to deselection or up to the end of the program. TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 1.04 17 Coordinate systems and offsets
## Page 18

Description 2.2.5 Effector coordinate system (#ECS) Selection: #ECS ON The ECS is used mainly to execute a withdrawal strategy after • tool breakage • NC reset or • program abort for machining with a tool in any orientation A machining plan that is perpendicular to the tool axis is determined automatically when determining the ECS. Fig. 8: Machining in a slanting hole Effectiveness • Effective up to deselection or up to the end of the program. No other coordinate system may be active when ECS is activated, otherwise the error message P- ERR-20774 is output. Deselection: #ECS OFF 18 Version: 1.04 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Coordinate systems and offsets
## Page 19

Description 2.2.6 Temporary transition to the machine axis coordinate system (#MCS) Select: #MCS ON [ EX TOOL ] With #MCS ON, active transformations and all offsets calculated in the axes can be temporarily deactivated so that machine axes can be directly positioned. After leaving the MCS, the state before selection is restored. Effectiveness • Active until deselected or up to program end. • With the ‘EX TOOL’ option, no tool offsets are included in the MCS calculation when the tool is changed so that machine axes can continue to be positioned directly. Only with #MCS OFF are tool offsets again included in the calculations. • Default offsets (e.g. zero offsets) can be programmed in the MCS. However, they are only active until they are deselected and are not saved. • It is not possible to select CS, ACS, ECS and TLC in the MCS. Deselect: #MCS OFF TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 1.04 19 Coordinate systems and offsets
## Page 20

Description 2.3 Measuring offset Selection: G101 <axis_name> <inclusion_factor> Measurement offset is the offset between the recorded measured values and the target position. G101 can be used to include the measurement offset in the axis coordinates as an additional offset based on the specified inclusion factor. Fig. 9: Measurement offset between probe signal and target point Effectiveness • Effective up to deselection or up to the end of the program. • A new measurement offset only takes effect with the next absolute programming (G90).. Deselection: G102 <axis_name> <dummy_numberr> 20 Version: 1.04 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Coordinate systems and offsets
## Page 21

Description 2.4 Manual mode offset Selection: #GET MANUAL OFFSETS The additional command values generated during an active G201 result in the path axes being offset to the PCS plane. After manual mode is deselected with G202, these offset values can be requests from the interpolator using #GET MANUAL OFFSETS and included as additional offset in the calculations of the axis coordinates in the NC program. Fig. 10: Manual mode offset Effectiveness • Effective up to deselection or up to the end of the program. Deselection: - TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 1.04 21 Coordinate systems and offsets
## Page 22

Description 2.5 Position preset Select: #PSET <axis_name> <Neue Istposition> ... This NC command can assign a new actual value to the current axis position. The resulting offset is called the position preset. Y' BKS Y G01 X10 Y10 #PSET X0 Y0 (Current position) X' 10 X 10 Fig. 11: Position preset Effectiveness • Active until deselected or up to program end. • Position reset is cancelled by a homing run (G74). • A new offset has no effect until the next absolute programmed position (G90). Deselect: #PRESET {<axis name><Dummywert>} The position presets are cancelled in all axes if #PRESET is programmed without specifying an axis. 22 Version: 1.04 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Coordinate systems and offsets
## Page 23

Description 2.6 Reference point offset Selection by G92 <Achsbezeichnung> <Verschiebung> ... G92 permits a reference point offset by a freely programmable value in the specified axes. Depending on the settings of G90/G91, the currently programmed reference point offset is set absolutely or relatively. Y' PCS G92 X10 Y10 Y X' 10 X 10 Fig. 12: Reference point offset Effectiveness • Active until the next reference point offset is programmed or up to program end. • A new offset has no effect until the next absolute programmed position (G90). Deselect: G92 <Achsbezeichnung> 0 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 1.04 23 Coordinate systems and offsets
## Page 24

Description 2.7 Zero offset Select: G54, ... G59, G159 The G54 - G59 or G159 commands select the corresponding zero offsets from the zero offset table [ZERO]. Fig. 13: Zero offset Effectiveness • Active until deselected or up to program end. • A new offset has no effect until the next absolute programmed position (G90). Deselect: G53 24 Version: 1.04 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Coordinate systems and offsets
## Page 25

Description 2.8 Tool offset Select: D <Nummer des Korrekturdatensatzes> The D word selects the corresponding tool geometry compensation data from the tool list [TOOL]. Y' PCS D1 [TOOL] Y wz[1].ax_versatz[0] 100000 wz[1].ax_versatz[1] 100000 ... X' 10 X 10 Fig. 14: Tool offset Effectiveness • Active until deselected or up to program end. In order to use kinematic transformations, special tool offset parameters may have to be assigned (wz[i].kinematic.param[j]). • Depending on the parameterisation, a new offset becomes active either directly when the D word is selected or until the next absolute programmed position (G90) from (P-CHAN-00100). • Depending on P-TOOL-00010 tool offsets act in the axis directions of the machining coordinate system or the machine coordinate system. Deselect: D0 2.8.1 Tool length compensation (#TLC) Select: #TLC ON [ <tool length compensation> ] TLC permits the reuse of NC programs which were created by a programming system and which consider a specific tool length, even if the tool length was changed on the machine. Effectiveness • Active until deselected or up to program end. • No new offsets or radii of the tool can be compensated, only the length. • A new offset has no effect until the next absolute programmed position (G90). Abwahl #TLC OFF TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 1.04 25 Coordinate systems and offsets
## Page 26

Description 2.9 Clamp position offset Select When the NC program is commanded, the clamping position offset compensation data [CLMP] is selected together with the NC program name. In the NC program, the currently valid position offset index can be read via the V. G. AKT_PLATZ variable. #PZV1 pzv_grp[1].achse[0].versatz -10 pzv_grp[1].achse[1].versatz 88 pzv_grp[1].achse[2].versatz 0.32 #PZV2 pzv_grp[2].achse[0].versatz 13 pzv_grp[2].achse[1].versatz 153 pzv_grp[2].achse[2].versatz -8.76 . . Processing positions . z0 PZV1 y 0 PZV2 x 0 Machine table Fig. 15: Clamp position offset Effectiveness • Effective up to program end. Deselect: - 26 Version: 1.04 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Coordinate systems and offsets
## Page 27

Description 2.10 Suppressing offsets Select: #SUPPRESS OFFSETS [ZERO PSET ...] <Achsname><position> ... In combination with a motion block, this command causes an execution of the programmed axis positions without consideration of the active offsets. All offsets in the NC block are suppressed if a particular offset type is not specified. Effectiveness • Valid only in the programmed NC block. Deselect: - TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 1.04 27 Coordinate systems and offsets
## Page 28

Parameter 3 Parameter 3.1 Overview ID Parameter Description P-AXIS-00018 achs_typ Axis type P-CHAN-00006 bezeichnung Axis identifier P-CHAN-00100 move_tool_offsets_dire Effectiveness of tool compensation data ctly 3.2 Axis parameters P-AXIS-00018 Axis type (linear axis, rotary axes, spindle) Description This parameter specifies the axis type of an axis. Parameter kenngr.achs_typ Data type STRING Data range Linear axis (ACHSTYP_TRANSLATOR) : 0x0001 Rotary axis (ACHSTYP_ROTATOR) : 0x0002 Spindle (ACHSTYP_SPINDEL): : 0x0004 Axis types T, R, S Dimension T: ---- R,S: ---- Default value ACHSTYP_TRANSLATOR Drive types ---- Remarks Depending on the axis type that is set, special functionalities are addressed in the NC kernel. Examples: - modulo calculation for rotary axes, - speed monitoring for spindles 28 Version: 1.04 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Coordinate systems and offsets
## Page 29

Parameter 3.3 Channel parameters P-CHAN-00006 Name of an axis in the NC channel Description This variable specifies the axis designations of all axes in the interpolator. The related corresponding logical axis number is defaulted by the parameter P-CHAN-00035. Parameter gruppe[i].achse[j].bezeichnung Data type STRING Data range Maximum 16 characters (length of axis designation, application-specific) Dimension ---- Default value * Remarks The axis designations must begin with the letters A, B, C, U, V, W, X, Y, Z or Q. After that, all letters and digits are possible. The axis designations must be unique. Caution: The axis identifiers ‘A1‘ to ‘A32‘ may not be used if the parameter P- CHAN-00253 is active. In this case, these identifiers are explicitly permitted in the axis lists (P-AXIS-00297) only. Parameterisation example: An axis group with 3 axes is to be configured. The first axis is addressed with ‘X_ACHSE1’ in the NC program. The second axis is designated ‘A’. The third axis is addressed with ‘W1’. gruppe[0].achse[0].bezeichnung X_ACHSE1 gruppe[0].achse[1].bezeichnung A gruppe[0].achse[2].bezeichnung W1+ * Note: The default value of variables is a blank string. P-CHAN-00100 Time of effectiveness of tool compensation data Description This parameter defines the time of the effectiveness of the tool compensation data (tool length compensation, tool position compensation) programmed by the D word Parameter move_tool_offsets_directly Data type BOOLEAN Data range 0: The compensation movement to consider the new tool compensation data only takes place after the D word for an axis when the next traverse information absolute (G90) is programmed (default). 1: The compensation movement in the corresponding axes is executed immediately with the D word without programming an absolute path condition (in compliance with DIN 66025). Dimension ---- Default value 0 Remarks The parameter has no effect if the kinematic transformation is active (#TRAFO ON). New tool compensation data are only considered with the next absolute travel information. TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 1.04 29 Coordinate systems and offsets
## Page 30

Support and Service 4 Support and Service Beckhoff and their partners around the world offer comprehensive support and service, making available fast and competent assistance with all questions related to Beckhoff products and system solutions. Download finder Our download finder contains all the files that we offer you for downloading. You will find application reports, technical documentation, technical drawings, configuration files and much more. The downloads are available in various formats. Beckhoff's branch offices and representatives Please contact your Beckhoff branch office or representative for local support and service on Beckhoff products! The addresses of Beckhoff's branch offices and representatives round the world can be found on our internet page: www.beckhoff.com You will also find further documentation for Beckhoff components there. Beckhoff Support Support offers you comprehensive technical assistance, helping you not only with the application of individual Beckhoff products, but also with other, wide-ranging services: • support • design, programming and commissioning of complex automation systems • and extensive training program for Beckhoff system components Hotline: +49 5246 963-157 e-mail: support@beckhoff.com Beckhoff Service The Beckhoff Service Center supports you in all matters of after-sales service: • on-site service • repair service • spare parts service • hotline service Hotline: +49 5246 963-460 e-mail: service@beckhoff.com Beckhoff Headquarters Beckhoff Automation Gmb H & Co. KG Huelshorstweg 20 33415 Verl Germany Phone: +49 5246 963-0 e-mail: info@beckhoff.com web: www.beckhoff.com 30 Version: 1.04 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Coordinate systems and offsets
## Page 31

Index Index P P-AXIS-00018 28 P-CHAN-00006 29 P-CHAN-00100 29 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 1.04 31 Coordinate systems and offsets
## Page 33

More Information: www.beckhoff.com/TF5200 Beckhoff Automation Gmb H & Co. KG Hülshorstweg 20 33415 Verl Germany Phone: +49 5246 9630 info@beckhoff.com www.beckhoff.com
