---
title: "TF5200_workspace_monitoring_en"
product: "TF5200"
category: "Motion_Control"
tags: ["NC"]
language: "EN"
document_type: "Manual"
version: "1.24"
source_pdf: "https://download.beckhoff.com/download/Document/automation/twincat3/TF5200_workspace_monitoring_en.pdf"
release_date: "2025-06-10"
---
Functional description | EN TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Dynamic access on variables Workspace/ protection space monitoring 6/10/2025 | Version: 1.24
## Page 3

Notes on the documentation Notes on the documentation This description is only intended for the use of trained specialists in control and automation engineering who are familiar with the applicable national standards. It is essential that the documentation and the following notes and explanations are followed when installing and commissioning the components. It is the duty of the technical personnel to use the documentation published at the respective time of each installation and commissioning. The responsible staff must ensure that the application or use of the products described satisfy all the requirements for safety, including all the relevant laws, regulations, guidelines and standards. Disclaimer The documentation has been prepared with care. The products described are, however, constantly under development. We reserve the right to revise and change the documentation at any time and without prior announcement. No claims for the modification of products that have already been supplied may be made on the basis of the data, diagrams and descriptions in this documentation. Trademarks Beckhoff®, Twin CAT®, Twin CAT/BSD®, TC/BSD®, Ether CAT®, Ether CAT G®, Ether CAT G10®, Ether CAT P®, Safety over Ether CAT®, Twin SAFE®, XFC®, XTS® and XPlanar® are registered trademarks of and licensed by Beckhoff Automation Gmb H. Other designations used in this publication may be trademarks whose use by third parties for their own purposes could violate the rights of the owners. Patent Pending The Ether CAT technology is patent protected, in particular by the following applications and patents: EP1590927, EP1789857, EP1456722, EP2137893, DE102015105702 with corresponding applications or registrations in various other countries. Ether CAT® is registered trademark and patented technology, licensed by Beckhoff Automation Gmb H, Germany Copyright © Beckhoff Automation Gmb H & Co. KG, Germany. The reproduction, distribution and utilisation of this document as well as the communication of its contents to others without express authorisation are prohibited. Offenders will be held liable for the payment of damages. All rights reserved in the event of the grant of a patent, utility model or design. TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 1.24 3 Dynamic access on variables Work- space/ protection space monitoring
## Page 4

General and safety instructions General and safety instructions Icons used and their meanings This documentation uses the following icons next to the safety instruction and the associated text. Please read the (safety) instructions carefully and comply with them at all times. Icons in explanatory text 1. Indicates an action. ð Indicates an action statement. DANGER Acute danger to life! If you fail to comply with the safety instruction next to this icon, there is immediate danger to human life and health. CAUTION Personal injury and damage to machines! If you fail to comply with the safety instruction next to this icon, it may result in personal injury or damage to machines. NOTICE Restriction or error This icon describes restrictions or warns of errors. Tips and other notes This icon indicates information to assist in general understanding or to provide additional informa- tion. General example Example that clarifies the text. NC programming example Programming example (complete NC program or program sequence) of the described function or NC com- mand. Specific version information Optional or restricted function. The availability of this function depends on the configuration and the scope of the version. 4 Version: 1.24 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Dynamic access on variables Work- space/ protection space monitoring
## Page 5

Table of contents Table of contents Notes on the documentation.................................................................................................................... 3 General and safety instructions.............................................................................................................. 4 1 Overview.................................................................................................................................................... 8 2 Description................................................................................................................................................ 9 2.1 Effectiveness..................................................................................................................................... 9 2.2 Standard control for axes................................................................................................................ 10 2.3 Characteristics of workspace/protection area control..................................................................... 11 2.4 Workspace/protection area monitoring for 2-path application......................................................... 14 2.5 Control levels.................................................................................................................................. 16 3 Programming........................................................................................................................................... 17 3.1 Defining workspace and protection areas....................................................................................... 18 3.1.1 Polygonal control areas “POLY”....................................................................................... 19 3.1.2 Cylindrical control areas “CIRC”....................................................................................... 21 3.2 Activating workspace and protection areas..................................................................................... 22 3.3 Deactivating workspace and protection areas................................................................................ 23 3.4 Clearing workspace and protection areas....................................................................................... 24 4 Monitor additional axes.......................................................................................................................... 25 5 Special features in manual mode.......................................................................................................... 26 6 Parameter................................................................................................................................................. 28 6.1 Overview......................................................................................................................................... 28 6.2 Description...................................................................................................................................... 29 6.3 PLC parameters.............................................................................................................................. 31 7 Support and Service............................................................................................................................... 32 Index......................................................................................................................................................... 33 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 5 Dynamic access on variables Work- space/ protection space monitoring
## Page 6

Table of contents 6 Version: TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Dynamic access on variables Work- space/ protection space monitoring
## Page 7

List of figures List of figures Fig. 1 Software limit switches................................................................................................................. 10 Fig. 2 Definition of workspace/protection areas..................................................................................... 11 Fig. 3 Example of an incorrect and correct polygon contour.................................................................. 12 Fig. 4 Definition of 3D control areas....................................................................................................... 12 Fig. 5 Example of cylindrical workspace areas in an application........................................................... 12 Fig. 6 Path check by area control........................................................................................................... 13 Fig. 7 Workspace overlaps..................................................................................................................... 14 Fig. 8 Secondary level with limitation..................................................................................................... 14 Fig. 9 Reference level with limitations.................................................................................................... 15 Fig. 10 Workspace limitation in U/V/W with MCS and IMCS axes........................................................... 15 Fig. 11 State transitions caused by #CONTROL AREA commands........................................................ 17 Fig. 12 2D view of the programmed polygonal workspace...................................................................... 20 Fig. 13 3D view of the programmed polygonal workspace...................................................................... 20 Fig. 14 2D view of the programmed cylindrical workspace...................................................................... 21 Fig. 15 3D view of the programmed cylindrical workspace...................................................................... 21 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 1.24 7 Dynamic access on variables Work- space/ protection space monitoring
## Page 8

Overview 1 Overview Task Monitoring 3D bodies by defining workspace or protection areas in a cylindrical or polygonal form of a constant height. Properties Work space and protection space monitoring with tool centre point monitoring is possible with • automatic mode in conjunction with: ◦ Linear motion blocks ◦ Circular motion blocks (regardless of orientation G17/G18/ G19) ◦ Kinematic transformations ◦ Polynomial contouring (monitoring interpolation points for the polynomial depending on dynamics and slope) ◦ Helical motions ◦ Reference point offsets with G92, G54 ◦ Cartesian transformations #(A)CS available as of CNC Build V2.11.2015: • active manual mode available as of CNC Build V3.1.3068.9: in conjunction with: ◦ Exclusive (G200) or inclusive mode (G201/G202) ◦ Kinematic transformations Parametrisation and programming The parameters of workspaces/protection areas are defined [} 18] for a specific channel directly in the NC program by means of # commands. Mandatory note on references to other documents For the sake of clarity, links to other documents and parameters are abbreviated, e.g. [PROG] for the Programming Manual or P-AXIS-00001 for an axis parameter. For technical reasons, these links only function in the Online Help (HTML5, CHM) but not in pdf files since pdfs do not support cross-linking. 8 Version: 1.24 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Dynamic access on variables Work- space/ protection space monitoring
## Page 9

Description 2 Description 2.1 Effectiveness Workspace or protection areas are defined, activated or deactivated by means of the #CONTROL AREA command. After a reset all workspace/protection areas are deactivated. Control normally refers to the 3 current main axes of a channel. As of CNC Build V2.11.2015.00 workspace and protection area control can also be used for active Cartesian transformations #(A)CS. As of CNC Build V2.11.2025.00 polygonal protection areas can also be defined for tracking axes. Workspace or protection areas are each programmed and are effective for a specific channel. TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 1.24 9 Dynamic access on variables Work- space/ protection space monitoring
## Page 10

Description 2.2 Standard control for axes Software limit switches Their simplest application is as axis-specific software limit switches for work space monitoring. The minimum and maximum limits defined for each axis limit the motion range of each axis. The position of software limit switches can be defined by: • Parameterisation in the axis configuration list P-AXIS-00177 and P-AXIS-00178 or • directly in the NC program Fig. 1: Software limit switches We recommend that you define the workspace and protection areas within the range of software limit switches. 10 Version: 1.24 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Dynamic access on variables Work- space/ protection space monitoring
## Page 11

Description 2.3 Characteristics of workspace/protection area control Workspace/protection areas A workspace is defined as a zone that the TCP (Tool Centre Point) is not permitted to exit. On the other hand, a protection area must never be touched by the TCP. Workspace and protection areas can be nested to any extent required. When areas are nested, protection space control overrides workspace control. The number of workspace and protection areas is limited to 20. Fig. 2: Definition of workspace/protection areas Control areas as 3D objects A workspace/protection area is defined by an object in space. Basically 2 different geometries are available. Circles or polygons can be defined by a third constant dimension. Cylinders are defined by a full circle in the basic plane. Polygons can be of any complexity in the basic plane. Only the convex form (self-contained chain without overlaps) is mandatory. The number of permitted motion blocks to define a polygonal shape is limited to 20 blocks. The X/Y/Z coordinates of the control areas are referred directly to the three main axes of the channel configuration. Example of X/Y basic plane (G17): X → 1st main axis Y → 2nd main axis Z → 3rd main axis (constant due to minimum/maximum values) TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 1.24 11 Dynamic access on variables Work- space/ protection space monitoring
## Page 12

Description Fig. 3: Example of an incorrect and correct polygon contour Control areas are always defined as viewed by the 3 main axes of the channel configuration (Cartesian). An active Cartesian transformation #(A)CS is not considered when control areas are defined. They are always defined in the MCS coordinate system, taking into consideration any act- ive Cartesian offsets (e.g. G54, G92, etc.). Fig. 4: Definition of 3D control areas Schematic of 2 machining units with workspace areas that are limited by 2 cylindrical workspaces (green). Fig. 5: Example of cylindrical workspace areas in an application 12 Version: 1.24 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Dynamic access on variables Work- space/ protection space monitoring
## Page 13

Description Path check In workspace/protection area control, the path between the starting and end points is checked for any violations. With standard linear and circular motion blocks, equations search for intersections with the defined control areas. When polynomial contouring is activated or with helical motions, the path is first segmented and the individual points are then checked. This results in the requirement for considerably more computation resources. Fig. 6: Path check by area control Control area overlaps When there are several workspace and protection areas, they may overlap. In the figure below, a small workspace connects two other workspaces. This permits a movement from workspace 1 to workspace 2. TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 1.24 13 Dynamic access on variables Work- space/ protection space monitoring
## Page 14

Description Fig. 7: Workspace overlaps 2.4 Workspace/protection area monitoring for 2-path application When workspace or protection areas are defined for 2-path applications, the boundaries in (I)MCS coordinates are also defined by polygons or circles. The third dimension, i.e. the Z axis, is monitored on the secondary path. This function is available as of CNC Build V3.1.3079.42. Fig. 8: Secondary level with limitation 14 Version: 1.24 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Dynamic access on variables Work- space/ protection space monitoring
## Page 15

Description Fig. 9: Reference level with limitations Fig. 10: Workspace limitation in U/V/W with MCS and IMCS axes Defining a workspace for a 2-path application N040 #CONTROL AREA START [ID=1 WORK MONITOR_LVL = "IMCS" POLY MIN_EXCUR = -100 MAX_EXCUR = 100] N050 : G0 X200 Y0 : G0 U150 V0 N060 : G0 X200 Y200 : G0 U150 V150 N070 : G0 X-200 Y200 : G0 U-150 V150 N080 : G0 X-200 Y-200 : G0 U-150 V-150 N090 : G0 X200 Y-200 : G0 U150 V-150 N100 : G0 X200 Y0 : G0 U150 V0 N110 #CONTROL AREA END TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 1.24 15 Dynamic access on variables Work- space/ protection space monitoring
## Page 16

Description 2.5 Control levels Controls levels are represented below. System with 2-step kinematic System with single-step kinematic System without kinematic transformation transformation transformation 16 Version: 1.24 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Dynamic access on variables Work- space/ protection space monitoring
## Page 17

Programming 3 Programming Definition and activation Workspace and protection areas are defined and activated directly in the NC program. Different # commands are available for this purpose. The #CONTROL AREA function initiates a workspace/protection area command. A number of different options are then expected depending on the # command issued. All possible states for a single control area are shown in the diagram below. In the diagram, the term "nop" stands for ‘No Operation’ and thus for a direct state transition. Fig. 11: State transitions caused by #CONTROL AREA commands Program end Active workspace and protection areas are not automatically deactivated at the end of the NC pro- gram; i.e. they continue to be monitored at the next program start. The OFF command can be used to explicitly deactivate workspace and protection areas at the end of the CNC program. Controller reset Stored workspace/protection areas are not deleted when the controller is reset. They are only deac- tivated and can be reactivated at any time by their IDs. The clear command is used to explicitly clear workspace/protection areas. TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 1.24 17 Dynamic access on variables Work- space/ protection space monitoring
## Page 18

Programming 3.1 Defining workspace and protection areas Time of definition No workspace/protection areas are predefined when the controller starts up. A definition in the configuration lists is not possible. A work or protection space is defined directly in the NC program in a sequence of path motions embedded in plain text commands. In this case, path motions must always be programmed in absolute dimensions. The contour of the control area in the plane is defined either by a closed polygon formed in any shape by linear blocks (target point and starting point of the block sequence must be identical) or by a full circle. The excursion in the third dimension and further characteristics of the control area are defined in the assigned plaintext command. Syntax for Start of control area definition: #CONTROL AREA BEGIN [ ID=.. WORK | PROT POLY | CIRC MIN_EXCUR=.. MAX_EXCUR=.. [EXCUR_AX=.. |EXCUR_AXNR=..] [MONITOR_LVL=..] ] ID=.. Identification number of the control area (ID). The definition is global valid after program end and RESET. Up to 20 different control areas can be defined. WORK Control area is a workspace. PROT Control area is a protection space. POLY Contour of a control area is defined as a polygonal shape. CIRC Contour of a control area is defined as a full circle. 18 Version: 1.24 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Dynamic access on variables Work- space/ protection space monitoring
## Page 19

Programming MIN_EXCUR=.. Limitation of the control area in the third dimension in negative direction in [mm, inch]. MAX_EXCUR=.. Limitation of the control area in the third dimension in positive direction in [mm, inch]. EXCUR_AX=.. Optional specification of an axis identifier for the third excursion direction of the workspace or protection area (as of CNC Build V2.11.2025.00). By default the third main axis is used. EXCUR_AXNR=.. Optional specification of a logical axis number for the third excursion direction of the workspace or protection area (as of CNC Build V2.11.2025.00). By default the third main axis is used. MONITOR_LVL=.. Specification of the monitoring level, see Control levels [} 16] (as of CNC Build V3.1.3079.42) IMCS: Intermediate coordinate system (only practical with multi-step transformations) MCS: Machine coordinate system (default) Syntax for End of control area definition: #CONTROL AREA END Each control area must be closed by the command #CONTROL AREA END. Only then can further control areas be defined. Sequence of NC command to define a workspace/protection space Every control area definition begins with #CONTROL AREA BEGIN and must be terminated with #CONTROL AREA END. Between these two commands, the basic geometric form of the workspace or protection area is programmed by means of DIN 66025 motion commands. A valid feedrate (F word) must be active. Depending on the configured geometric shape, G02 or G03 is expected for cylindrical control areas and G01 for a polygonal area with corresponding motion blocks. NOTICE When the control area is defined, all positions must be programmed in absolute dimensions (G90). NOTICE An active Cartesian transformation #(A)CS has no influence during the definition of the control space. Work and protection spaces are always defined as Cartesian in the MCS coordinate system. Overwrite control areas A control area can be overwritten by programming the same ID again. However, the condition is that the control area with this ID is not activated at the same time. 3.1.1 Polygonal control areas “POLY” A two-dimensional polygon is defined by a string of linear NC motion commands. The string of points is checked for a convex profile, i.e. connections between 2 adjacent points may not intersect. For the 3rd dimension (3rd main axis), the minimum and maximum limits are defined in the start command. Normally, the surface area of the workspace or protection area is defined by the first two main axes of the active machining plane. As of CNC Build V2.11.2025.00 polygonal protection areas can also be defined for tracking axes. The starting point of the two tracking axes must therefore be specified. TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 1.24 19 Dynamic access on variables Work- space/ protection space monitoring
## Page 20

Programming First and last points identical When polygonal control areas are defined, note that the first and last points must be identical. This rule ensures that a closed contour is defined as a polygon. Defining a polygonal work space Polygonal workspace N10 #CONTROL AREA BEGIN [ID3 WORK POLY MIN_EXCUR=-50 MAX_EXCUR=50] N20 G01 F1000 G90 X-150 Y75 (Starting point) N30 X-50 Y150 N40 X50 Y150 N50 X150 Y75 N60 X150 Y0 N70 X50 Y0 N80 X50 Y75 N90 X-50 Y75 N100 X-50 Y0 N120 X-150 Y0 N130 X-150 Y75 (End point identical with starting point) N140 #CONTROL AREA END Fig. 12: 2D view of the programmed polygonal workspace 50 -50 Z Y X Fig. 13: 3D view of the programmed polygonal workspace 20 Version: 1.24 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Dynamic access on variables Work- space/ protection space monitoring
## Page 21

Programming 3.1.2 Cylindrical control areas “CIRC” When cylindrical control areas are defined, two NC motion commands according to DIN 66025 are required. The 1st motion command defines the starting point of the full circle and thus the absolute position of the control area. A circular NC motion command (G02/G03) is expected as mandatory as the 2nd motion command. For the 3rd dimension (3rd main axis), the minimum and maximum limits are defined in the start command. Defining a cylindrical protection space: Cylindrical protection area N10 #CONTROL AREA BEGIN [ID4 PROT CIRC MIN_EXCUR=-70 MAX_EXCUR=70] N20 G01 X0 Y0 F10000 (Start point for cyl. protection space) N30 G02 G162 I0 J75 (Definition of the full circle) N40 #CONTROL AREA END Fig. 14: 2D view of the programmed cylindrical workspace Fig. 15: 3D view of the programmed cylindrical workspace TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 1.24 21 Dynamic access on variables Work- space/ protection space monitoring
## Page 22

Programming 3.2 Activating workspace and protection areas Commands for selection The tool TCP is checked for violations with all activated workspace and protection areas. Control areas can either be activated individually via their unique ID or they can all be activated at once. When workspaces are activated, the TCP must already be located in the valid workspace. In the same way, when a protection area is activated, the TCP may not incur any violation at the current position. The NC command to select a control area contains the following syntax elements: Syntax of Selecting a control area #CONTROL AREA ON [ALL] | [ ID=.. ] ID=.. Identification number of the control area (ID). ALL Activate all defined control areas. Activating workspace and protection areas #CONTROL AREA ON [ID3] (Activate specific control area) #CONTROL AREA ON ALL (Activate all defined control areas) 22 Version: 1.24 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Dynamic access on variables Work- space/ protection space monitoring
## Page 23

Programming 3.3 Deactivating workspace and protection areas Commands for deselection The monitoring function does not check deactivated control areas for violations. They are stored until they are cleared or until the controller is shut down and can be reactivated at any time. The NC command to deselect a control area contains the following syntax elements: Syntax of Deselecting a control area #CONTROL AREA OFF [ALL] | [ ID=..] ID=.. Identification number of the control area (ID). ALL Deactivate all currently defined control areas. Deactivating workspace and protection areas #CONTROL AREA OFF [ID3] (Deactivate specific control area) #CONTROL AREA OFF (Deactivate control area last selected) #CONTROL AREA OFF ALL (Deactivate all active control areas) TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 1.24 23 Dynamic access on variables Work- space/ protection space monitoring
## Page 24

Programming 3.4 Clearing workspace and protection areas Commands for clearing Information on cleared control areas is irrevocably lost. The memory space occupied is then released in order to define new control areas. Only deactivated control areas can be cleared. The NC command to clear a control area contains the following syntax elements: Syntax of Clearing a control area #CONTROL AREA CLEAR [ALL] | [ ID=..] ID=.. Identification number of the control area (ID). ALL Delete all defined control areas. Deleting control areas #CONTROL AREA CLEAR [ID3] (Clear specific control area) #CONTROL AREA CLEAR ALL (Clear all defined control areas) It is only permitted to clear workspace and protection area when the machine is in inactive state. If an attempt is made to clear active workspace and protections area, the warning ID 120499 is out- put. 24 Version: 1.24 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Dynamic access on variables Work- space/ protection space monitoring
## Page 25

Monitor additional axes 4 Monitor additional axes Besides the main axes. X, Y, Z can adopt additional axes in the monitoring function for work spaces and protection spaces. In this case, the definition of the assigned control areas is limited to polygonal shapes. The control areas are defined using the associated axis identifiers. Define a work space for the additional axes X2, Y2 and Z2 : N10 #CONTROL AREA BEGIN [ID4 WORK POLY MIN_EXCUR=-50 MAX_EXCUR=50] N20 G01 F1000 G90 X2=100 Y2=100 ;Starting point N30 X2=-100 N40 Y2=-100 N50 X2=100 N60 X2 = 100 Y2= 100 ; End point identical with starting point N70 #CONTROL AREA END : N500 #CONTROL AREA ON ALL : N1000 M30 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 1.24 25 Dynamic access on variables Work- space/ protection space monitoring
## Page 26

Special features in manual mode 5 Special features in manual mode Monitoring in manual mode is carried out in the real-time part of the CNC based on the defined and activated control areas. Error response is identical to ACS limitation or approaching manual mode offset limits. If an IMCS / MCS limit is reached, all axes ahead of the limit without any error. The start of the deceleration process ahead of the limit is dependent on the manual mode velocity and acceleration. Output a warning message The reason for motion stop is displayed to the user by the output of a warning message. To achieve this, P- MANU-00014 [} 30] must be set. Exclusive manual mode (G200) In response to an error in automatic mode, an error message is output and the program is aborted. However in manual mode, only an axis motion stop occurs as an error reaction when a person enters the protection space or leaves the workspace. Inclusive manual mode (G201/G202) If motions from automatic and manual mode are superimposed (parallel interpolation), work space and protective space violations may occur. Suppress workspace monitoring The parameter P-CHAN-00442 [} 30] influences or even suppresses workspace monitoring in manual mode. Suppress workspace monitoring with P-CHAN-00442 Initial situation for all cases: The machine runs in automatic or manual mode. Before activating manual mode, activate workspace monitoring, e.g. in a subroutine. 26 Version: 1.24 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Dynamic access on variables Work- space/ protection space monitoring
## Page 27

Special features in manual mode Case 1: P-CHAN-00442 is assigned the value 1. Workspace monitoring is not activated in manual mode although its definition and activation were executed in the NC program. The machine can move back and forth across workspace boundaries. Case 2: P-CHAN-00442 is assigned the value 0. Workspace monitoring is active in manual mode in combination with the Suppress error output from workspace monitoring in manual mode control unit [} 31]. When manual mode is active, workspace monitoring can be deactivated by the signal set in the Suppress error output from workspace monitoring in manual mode control unit [} 31]. The machine can then move back and forth across workspace boundaries. When manual mode is activated the TCP must be within the permitted range. If this is not the case, an error is output. Error ID 50961, if the workspace was left Error ID 50962, if the protection area was left. Case 3: P-CHAN-00442 is assigned the value 2. Workspace monitoring is activated in manual mode in combination with the Suppress error output from workspace monitoring in manual mode control unit [} 31]. When manual mode is activated, the TCP may be located outside the permitted range. The position of the TCP is not checked, Workspace monitoring can be deactivated by the control unit. The machine can move back within the permitted range. TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 1.24 27 Dynamic access on variables Work- space/ protection space monitoring
## Page 28

Parameter 6 Parameter 6.1 Overview ID Description P-AXIS-00177 Position of the negative software limit switch P-AXIS-00178 Position of the positive software limit switch P-MANU-00014 Output a message at offset limit P-CHAN-00268 Automatic travel range limit P-CHAN-00442 Suppression of workspace monitoring function in manual operation 28 Version: 1.24 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Dynamic access on variables Work- space/ protection space monitoring
## Page 29

Parameter 6.2 Description Axis parameters P-AXIS-00177 Negative software limit switch Description The parameter defines the possible traverse range in the negative direction (negative software limit switch position). The programmed command positions are always checked on 'kenngr.swe_neg', the actual positions on 'kenngr.swe_neg - kenngr.swe_toleranz'. Parameter kenngr.swe_neg Data type SGN32 Data range MIN(SGN32) < swe_neg < P-AXIS-00178 Axis types T, R Dimension T: 0.1µm R: 0.0001 ° Default value -100000000 drive types. ---- Remarks The value of the parameter is adopted on reset, mode change and axis replacement from the axis record. P-AXIS-00178 Positive software limit switch Description The parameter defines the possible traverse range in the positive direction (positive software limit switch position). The programmed command positions are always checked on 'kenngr.swe_pos', the actual positions on 'kenngr.swe_pos + kenngr.swe_toleranz'. Parameter kenngr.swe_pos Data type SGN32 Data range P-AXIS-00177 < swe_pos < MAX(SGN32) Axis types T, R Dimension T: 0.1µm R,S: 0.0001 ° Default value 100000000 drive types. ---- Remarks The value of the parameter is adopted on reset, mode change and axis replacement from the axis record. TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 1.24 29 Dynamic access on variables Work- space/ protection space monitoring
## Page 30

Parameter Channel parameters P-CHAN-00268 Automatic motion path limiting Description The programmed target positions of a measurement block (G100) must be inside the software limit switches (SLS), otherwise the measurement motion is not started or executed. With specific measurement processes, the position of the PCS target positions is unknown. Movement should continue along the programmed direction until the probe responds. The parameter P-CHAN-00268 can activate the automatic limit of the measurement process. If no probe signal is detected during the measurement travel, the CNC stops the movement before the software limit switch or IMCS rectangular workspace or protection area (as of V3.1.3079.22). An error message is output with ID 50706 . This function is available with measuring methods 1, 2, 3, and 4. Measurement offsets set in the axis parameters P-AXIS-00114 or P-AXIS-00467 are only effective if the CNC does not execute any limiting of the measurement travel. Parameter meas_soft_limit_move_path Data type BOOLEAN Data range 0: Programmed measurement motions with target position outside software limit switches are not started; a software limit switch error message is output. 1: Programmed measurement motions with target outside software limit switches are started without error message. If the measurement is not executed by the time the end of the motion path (SLS) is reached, the CNC stops the movement and error message ID 50706 is output. Dimension ---- Default value 0 Remarks Parameterisation example: meas_soft_limit_move_path 1 P-CHAN-00442 Suppression of workspace monitoring function in manual operation Description This parameter influences the workspace monitoring function in manual mode. As from version V3.3070.11 onwards, activating the workspace monitoring function using the NC program also simultaneously activates the workspace monitoring function in manual mode. 0: Workspace monitoring is activated as described above 1: Workspace monitoring is not activated 2: Workspace monitoring is activated; error handling is suppressed when manual mode is selected for axes located outside/within the workspace/protection area. Parameter suppress_workspace_monitoring_manual_mode Data type UNS16 Data range 0, 1, 2 Dimension ---- Default value 0 Remarks The parameter is available as of Build V3.3070.11. Manual mode parameter P-MANU-00014 Output a message at offset limit Description If this parameter is set to TRUE, the CNC generates a warning if a manual movement stops at a relative offset limit (P-AXIS-00137, P-AXIS-00138) or at an absolute offset limit (P-AXIS-00492, P-AXIS-00493). Parameter move_limit_warning Data type BOOLEAN Data range 0/1 Dimension ---- 30 Version: 1.24 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Dynamic access on variables Work- space/ protection space monitoring
## Page 31

Parameter Default value 0 Remarks This parameter is available as of CNC Build 2.11.2804.12 6.3 PLC parameters Violation detected in workspace monitoring Description This datum reads a violation detected by the workspace monitoring system [FCT-C14 [} 8]]. Signal flow CNC → PLC ST path gp Ch[channel_idx]^.bahn_state.area_mon_violation_detected_r Data type BOOL Value range [TRUE = error detected in workspace monitoring, FALSE] Access PLC is reading Suppress error output from working space monitoring in manual mode Description This control unit suppresses the output of error messages from the working space monitoring system [FCT-C14 [} 8]] in manual mode. Data type MC_CONTROL_BOOL_UNIT, see description of Control unit Access PLC reads requested + feedback values and writes commanded value + redirection. ST path gp Ch[channel_idx]^.bahn_mc_control.suppress_area_mon_manual_mode Commanded, requested and return values ST element .command_w .request_r .state_r Data type BOOL Value range [TRUE = suppress error output; FALSE] Redirection ST element .enable_w TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 1.24 31 Dynamic access on variables Work- space/ protection space monitoring
## Page 32

Support and Service 7 Support and Service Beckhoff and their partners around the world offer comprehensive support and service, making available fast and competent assistance with all questions related to Beckhoff products and system solutions. Download finder Our download finder contains all the files that we offer you for downloading. You will find application reports, technical documentation, technical drawings, configuration files and much more. The downloads are available in various formats. Beckhoff's branch offices and representatives Please contact your Beckhoff branch office or representative for local support and service on Beckhoff products! The addresses of Beckhoff's branch offices and representatives round the world can be found on our internet page: www.beckhoff.com You will also find further documentation for Beckhoff components there. Beckhoff Support Support offers you comprehensive technical assistance, helping you not only with the application of individual Beckhoff products, but also with other, wide-ranging services: • support • design, programming and commissioning of complex automation systems • and extensive training program for Beckhoff system components Hotline: +49 5246 963-157 e-mail: support@beckhoff.com Beckhoff Service The Beckhoff Service Center supports you in all matters of after-sales service: • on-site service • repair service • spare parts service • hotline service Hotline: +49 5246 963-460 e-mail: service@beckhoff.com Beckhoff Headquarters Beckhoff Automation Gmb H & Co. KG Huelshorstweg 20 33415 Verl Germany Phone: +49 5246 963-0 e-mail: info@beckhoff.com web: www.beckhoff.com 32 Version: 1.24 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Dynamic access on variables Work- space/ protection space monitoring
## Page 33

Index Index A Arbeitsraumüberwachung Verletzung 31 P P-AXIS-00177 29 P-AXIS-00178 29 P-CHAN-00268 30 P-CHAN-00442 30 P-MANU-00014 30 S suppress error output in manual mode workspace monitoring 31 V Verletzung Arbeitsraumüberwachung 31 W workspace monitoring suppress error output in manual mode 31 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 1.24 33 Dynamic access on variables Work- space/ protection space monitoring
## Page 35

More Information: www.beckhoff.com/TF5200 Beckhoff Automation Gmb H & Co. KG Hülshorstweg 20 33415 Verl Germany Phone: +49 5246 9630 info@beckhoff.com www.beckhoff.com
