---
title: "TF5200_fir_filter_en"
product: "TF5200"
category: "Motion_Control"
tags: ["NC"]
language: "EN"
document_type: "Manual"
version: "1.02"
source_pdf: "https://download.beckhoff.com/download/Document/automation/twincat3/TF5200_fir_filter_en.pdf"
release_date: "2025-06-10"
---
Functional description | EN TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC FIR-Filter 6/10/2025 | Version: 1.02
## Page 3

Notes on the documentation Notes on the documentation This description is only intended for the use of trained specialists in control and automation engineering who are familiar with the applicable national standards. It is essential that the documentation and the following notes and explanations are followed when installing and commissioning the components. It is the duty of the technical personnel to use the documentation published at the respective time of each installation and commissioning. The responsible staff must ensure that the application or use of the products described satisfy all the requirements for safety, including all the relevant laws, regulations, guidelines and standards. Disclaimer The documentation has been prepared with care. The products described are, however, constantly under development. We reserve the right to revise and change the documentation at any time and without prior announcement. No claims for the modification of products that have already been supplied may be made on the basis of the data, diagrams and descriptions in this documentation. Trademarks Beckhoff®, Twin CAT®, Twin CAT/BSD®, TC/BSD®, Ether CAT®, Ether CAT G®, Ether CAT G10®, Ether CAT P®, Safety over Ether CAT®, Twin SAFE®, XFC®, XTS® and XPlanar® are registered trademarks of and licensed by Beckhoff Automation Gmb H. Other designations used in this publication may be trademarks whose use by third parties for their own purposes could violate the rights of the owners. Patent Pending The Ether CAT technology is patent protected, in particular by the following applications and patents: EP1590927, EP1789857, EP1456722, EP2137893, DE102015105702 with corresponding applications or registrations in various other countries. Ether CAT® is registered trademark and patented technology, licensed by Beckhoff Automation Gmb H, Germany Copyright © Beckhoff Automation Gmb H & Co. KG, Germany. The reproduction, distribution and utilisation of this document as well as the communication of its contents to others without express authorisation are prohibited. Offenders will be held liable for the payment of damages. All rights reserved in the event of the grant of a patent, utility model or design. TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 1.02 3 FIR-Filter
## Page 4

General and safety instructions General and safety instructions Icons used and their meanings This documentation uses the following icons next to the safety instruction and the associated text. Please read the (safety) instructions carefully and comply with them at all times. Icons in explanatory text 1. Indicates an action. ð Indicates an action statement. DANGER Acute danger to life! If you fail to comply with the safety instruction next to this icon, there is immediate danger to human life and health. CAUTION Personal injury and damage to machines! If you fail to comply with the safety instruction next to this icon, it may result in personal injury or damage to machines. NOTICE Restriction or error This icon describes restrictions or warns of errors. Tips and other notes This icon indicates information to assist in general understanding or to provide additional informa- tion. General example Example that clarifies the text. NC programming example Programming example (complete NC program or program sequence) of the described function or NC com- mand. Specific version information Optional or restricted function. The availability of this function depends on the configuration and the scope of the version. 4 Version: 1.02 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC FIR-Filter
## Page 5

Table of contents Table of contents Notes on the documentation.................................................................................................................... 3 General and safety instructions.............................................................................................................. 4 1 Overview.................................................................................................................................................... 8 2 Description................................................................................................................................................ 9 2.1 Operating principle.......................................................................................................................... 10 2.2 Filter types....................................................................................................................................... 11 2.2.1 Moving average filter........................................................................................................ 11 2.2.2 Gaussian filter.................................................................................................................. 12 2.2.3 Windowed sinc filter......................................................................................................... 13 2.2.4 Time delay filter................................................................................................................ 14 2.3 Contour deviation............................................................................................................................ 15 2.3.1 Estimation of contour deviation........................................................................................ 15 2.3.2 Limiting axis errors and contour deviation........................................................................ 16 3 Enabling FIR filters.................................................................................................................................. 19 4 Restrictions – special features.............................................................................................................. 20 5 Programming........................................................................................................................................... 21 6 Parameters............................................................................................................................................... 24 6.1 Overview......................................................................................................................................... 24 6.2 Description...................................................................................................................................... 25 7 Support and Service............................................................................................................................... 28 Index......................................................................................................................................................... 29 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 5 FIR-Filter
## Page 6

Table of contents 6 Version: TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC FIR-Filter
## Page 7

List of figures List of figures Fig. 1 Step response of axis setpoint filter............................................................................................. 10 Fig. 2 Filter core of moving average filter............................................................................................... 11 Fig. 3 Step response of moving average filter........................................................................................ 11 Fig. 4 Filter core of Gaussian filter......................................................................................................... 12 Fig. 5 Step response of Gaussian filter.................................................................................................. 12 Fig. 6 Filter core of windowed sinc filter................................................................................................. 13 Fig. 7 Step response of windowed sinc filter.......................................................................................... 13 Fig. 8 Contour error per filter order at a 90° corner................................................................................ 15 Fig. 9 Comparison with contour in corner for motion ............................................................................ 17 Fig. 10 Comparison of path velocity with (green) and without (red) tolerance monitoring....................... 18 Fig. 11 2D contour programming example............................................................................................... 23 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 1.02 7 FIR-Filter
## Page 8

Overview 1 Overview This function is an additional option requiring a license. Task Machine vibrations can have a negative impact on the machining results of a machine tool. The FIR filter function (Finite Impulse Response filter) achieves the following: • Smooths setpoint curves at axis level. • Reduces the excitation of machine vibrations. • Is simple and reliable to use by specifying a maximum permitted tolerance. Improves surface finish especially in free-form surface machining. This function is available as of CNC Build V3.1.3075.02 Programming and parameterisation The function can be parameterised and enabled • both in the axis lists • and in the #FILTER programming command in the NC program, provided a filter type (P-AXIS-00586) is configured for the particular axis. Mandatory note on references to other documents For the sake of clarity, links to other documents and parameters are abbreviated, e.g. [PROG] for the Programming Manual or P-AXIS-00001 for an axis parameter. For technical reasons, these links only function in the Online Help (HTML5, CHM) but not in pdf files since pdfs do not support cross-linking. 8 Version: 1.02 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC FIR-Filter
## Page 9

Description 2 Description FIR axis filters provide the user with the possibility of smoothing the axis setpoint curves for drives to minimise machine excitation. Various filters are selectable as FIR axis filter: • Moving average filter • Gaussian filter • Windowed sinc filter • Time delay filter Parameterisable filters are effective with: • Linear axes. • Rotary axes without modulo calculation, i.e. those that have a limited motion range (see P- AXIS-00015). • Rotary axes with modulo handling, i.e. with endless rotation. Only one filter per axis can be enabled at a time. A filter is only effective when a fil- ter order > 0 and a filter type are assigned. TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 1.02 9 FIR-Filter
## Page 10

Description 2.1 Operating principle FIR filters (Finite Impulse Response filters) are discrete filters with an impulse response of finite length. These filters have the advantage that they are always stable and so cannot excite themselves to vibrate. Precisely one of these axis filters can be enabled for each axis and then acts on the setpoint signal of that axis. As shown in Figure Step response of axis setpoint filter [} 10], filters have a smoothing effect on the filtered signal (here: step response). Depending on the filter used, the signal curve or smoothing has a different characteristic. However, smoothing also causes a deviation from the original setpoint curve. So, using a filter also entails a certain error or distortion in the axis affected. At corners and curvatures on a programmed contour, such an error may lead to contour deviations. Refer to the subsection Contour deviation [} 15] for more information on deviations and how they can be limited. Fig. 1: Step response of axis setpoint filter Using an axis setpoint filter leads to an axis error compared to the unfiltered set- point signal and this results in a contour deviation. 10 Version: 1.02 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC FIR-Filter
## Page 11

Description 2.2 Filter types 2.2.1 Moving average filter The FIR moving average filter is a symmetrical non-causal time series moving average filter. It acts like a low-pass filter within the frequency band: With a low-pass filter, all frequencies below a certain cut-off frequency pass through the filter. Higher frequencies above this cut-off frequency are attenuated or are not passed through at all. High frequencies are filtered out. The degree of signal smoothing can be adjusted by specifying a filter order. The higher the order, the stronger the filter effect. The filter core corresponds to a rectangle, see Fig. “Filter core of moving average filter” below. The resulting characteristic filter curve (step response) is depicted in Fig. “Step response of moving average filter”. The examples are calculated with order 40. Fig. 2: Filter core of moving average filter Fig. 3: Step response of moving average filter TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 1.02 11 FIR-Filter
## Page 12

Description 2.2.2 Gaussian filter A FIR Gaussian filter is a symmetrical non-causal time series moving average filter with a Gaussian curve instead of a rectangle as filter core. Like the moving average filter, it acts as a low-pass filter within the frequency band. The degree of signal smoothing can be adjusted by specifying a filter order. The higher the order, the stronger the filter effect. The filter core corresponds to a Gaussian curve, see Fig. “Filter core of Gaussian filter”. The resulting characteristic filter curve (step response) is depicted in Fig. “Step response of Gaussian filter”. The examples are calculated with order 40. Fig. 4: Filter core of Gaussian filter Fig. 5: Step response of Gaussian filter 12 Version: 1.02 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC FIR-Filter
## Page 13

Description 2.2.3 Windowed sinc filter The FIR windowed sinc filter is a symmetrical non--causal filter. It acts within the frequency band as an “ideal” low-pass filter. The filter engagement frequency is specified in the frequency parameters. The degree of signal smoothing can be adjusted by specifying a filter order. The higher the order, the stronger the filter effect. The filter core corresponds to a windowed sinc function, see Fig. “Filter core of windowed sinc filter”. The resulting characteristic filter curve (step response) is depicted in Fig. “Step response of windowed sinc filter”. The examples are calculated with order 40 frequency 100 Hz. Fig. 6: Filter core of windowed sinc filter Fig. 7: Step response of windowed sinc filter TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 1.02 13 FIR-Filter
## Page 14

Description 2.2.4 Time delay filter A time delay filter delays signals in time without changing the signal curve. One application, for example, is to compensate for dead times in the drive train, if this is not identical in all axes. The delay time can be configured in axes either in cycles in the parameter order (P-AXIS-00587) or in µs in the parameter order_time (P-AXIS-00591). Alternatively, it is also possible to program delay time in the NC program parameters ORDER or ORDER_TIME. The maximum number of possible delays is 100 cycles or 100* NC cycle time in µs. Another possible application is to synchronise axes when FIR filters are used. If a FIR filter is used in only one axis and not in the other axes of an axis group, the axes will run asynchronously in time. To obtain synchronous axes despite this, time delay filters can be used in the other axes. Time delay filter to synchronise axes Axis with configured moving average filter: filter_fir.enable 1 filter_fir.type 1 (moving average filter) filter_fir.order 20 filter_fir.share 100 Required settings in other axes to obtain synchronous axes: filter_fir.enable 1 filter_fir.type 4 (time delay filter) filter_fir.order 10 filter_fir.share 100 The adjusting filter order of the time delay filter is obtained from half the filter order of the filter used: filter_fir.order / 2 If the filter order is an odd number, the adjusting filter order of the time delay filter is obtained from: (filter_fir.order+1 ) / 2 14 Version: 1.02 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC FIR-Filter
## Page 15

Description 2.3 Contour deviation An axis error (see Operating principle [} 10]) always occurs when an axis filter acts on the axis setpoints of an axis and this leads to contour deviations. The tolerance monitoring function (see Tolerance monitoring [} 16]) can be used to monitor and limit axis errors caused by axis filters. As opposed to conventional low-pass filters, it is possible with FIR axis filters to travel parallel paths in opposite directions and obtain a good workpiece surface at the same time. In general, these deviations have no effect on motion control applications. 2.3.1 Estimation of contour deviation Contour deviations caused by the use of FIR axis filters are influenced by 3 factors, provided identical filters are used in every axis of an axis group: 1. Cycle time 2. Filter order 3. Traverse feed rate The following simple ratios apply: • Double cycle time = double error • Double feed rate = double error • Double filter order = double error The graphic below is generated for a cycle time of 1ms and an F1000 feed rate at a 90° corner using a moving average filter. With different marginal data, the filter orders must be uprated according to the ratios above. Fig. 8: Contour error per filter order at a 90° corner TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 1.02 15 FIR-Filter
## Page 16

Description 2.3.2 Limiting axis errors and contour deviation The following options are available to influence an axis error or contour deviation: • Adapt the influencing factors (cycle time, feed rate, filter order) as described in Estimation of contour deviation [} 15]. • Adapt the filter parameters for all axes of an axis group (if settings are different). • Activate tolerance monitoring (see Tolerance monitoring [} 16]). 2.3.2.1 Tolerance monitoring Tolerance monitoring provides a simple and reliable method for handling filters. The automatic monitoring of axis errors only intervenes if axis errors become excessive when axis filters are used. The user must specify the maximum permitted tolerance in the NC program. To depict the operating principle of tolerance monitoring, the figure below presents a comparison of contours of a motion “without filter” (blue curve top right), ‘with filter’ (red curve’ and ‘with filter and tolerance monitoring’ (green curve in a corner of the program. The program of the example used here is a programming example taken from the Section Programming [} 21]. An moving average filter with an order of 40 is used as filter. The specified tolerance is 0.001mm. 16 Version: 1.02 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC FIR-Filter
## Page 17

Description x 10⁴ 1 0,995 0,99 Set point 2 0,985 0,98 0,975 0,5 1 1,5 2 2,5 x 10⁴ Set point 1 Fig. 9: Comparison with contour in corner for motion Blue without filter Red with filter Green with filter and tolerance monitoring Functionally, an intervention by tolerance monitoring ensures that the path velocity is only reduced at the relevant points in the program (Operating principle [} 10]) Reducing path velocity is based here on the axis with the largest anticipated axis error in the particular situation. The velocity is reduced until the axis error no long exceeds the tolerance limit. Moreover, it should also be ensured that the size of any reduction is only as small as required to limit the machining velocity of the program as little as possible. To depict the function of tolerance monitoring, the figure below shows the path velocity with (green curve) and without (red curve) tolerance monitoring. The ramps with reduced velocities caused by tolerance monitoring (green curve) are easily visible at the program corners. The tolerance monitoring of FIR filters is intended to obtain the best possible balance between machining velocity and accuracy while at the same time minimising the excitation of the machine to vibrate. TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 1.02 17 FIR-Filter
## Page 18

Description Fig. 10: Comparison of path velocity with (green) and without (red) tolerance monitoring Deviation or axis error and machining velocity have a uniform behaviour. Less devi- ation = lower machining velocity; more deviation = higher machining velocity. As a result, tolerance monitoring generally entails a longer machining time. Tolerance monitoring monitors the axis errors of all axes and not the contour devi- ation. Tolerance monitoring always monitors the current axis setpoint curve. This means that any path adaptations, for example an activated contouring mode, are also in- cluded in the filtered setpoint curves. The specified tolerance then always refers to the already modified setpoint curve, i.e. it is added. Maximum contour deviation is dependent on the machine kinematics. Since tolerance monitoring only monitors the maximum error per axis, the contour error may vary. This results from interaction between the individual axes. As an example, this can be determined as follows for simple kinematics: • Cartesian axes in 2D motion: • Cartesian axes in 3D motion: 18 Version: 1.02 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC FIR-Filter
## Page 19

Enabling FIR filters 3 Enabling FIR filters A condition for the use of this function is the correct parameterisation of axis-specific filter parameters. Parameter settings can be made in 2 ways: • Axis-specific in the axis lists. • Identically for all axes in the #FILTER command in the NC program. If the axes in an axis group are configured with different axis filters or filter paramet- ers, this will result in an asynchronous axis behaviour. It is therefore recommended to always use the same configuration for the axis filters within an axis group. Requirements for the use of filters: • One filter type (P-AXIS-00586) must be configured in the given axis.. • The filter order must be specified with a value greater than 0; this can be assigned in ◦ parameter P-AXIS-00587 or P-AXIS-00591 in the axis parameters or ◦ in the NC program with #FILTER [} 21][ORDER=.. or ORDER_TIME=.. ]. Time of enable FIR axis filters can be enabled in 2 ways: 1. Program-specific and time-specific across all axes by NC programming. 2. Permanently and axis-specific in the axis lists. A mixed form is also possible, for example the filters can have a permanent axis-specific preconfiguration in the axis lists and be flexibly enabled or disabled in the NC program. TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 1.02 19 FIR-Filter
## Page 20

Restrictions – special features 4 Restrictions – special features The FIR filters [} 9] and the Vibration Guard are different independent functions with similar objectives. Both functions smooth the axis setpoint signal to avoid exciting the machine to vibrations. FIR filters achieve this in the broadband. On the other hand, the Vibration Guard filters specific critical frequencies selectively. NOTICE It is only possible to use FIR filters and the Vibration Guard simultaneously under certain conditions. The following combinations are not possible and will result in the output of an error message: • Configuring an FIR filter in one axis and at the same time activating the Vibration Guard in the same axis. • It is not possible within an NC program to program both #FILTER [} 21] and #VIB GUARD commands (Error ID 22060). • If #FILTER [} 21] commands are used, the Vibration Guard may not be activated in the axis lists. • If #VIB GUARD commands are used, no filter types may be configured in the axes. It is permitted to use: • an FIR filter in one axis and the Vibration Guard in another axis but only if activation takes place exclusively in the axis lists. In this case, neither #FILTER nor #VIB GUARD commands can be used. Axis exchange commands Axis exchange commands disable FIR filters. Axis exchange commands disable FIR filters that may be enabled at that time. If the filters should remain enabled after axis exchange, they must be re-enabled by a corresponding #FILTER [} 21] command. If the FIR filters were only enabled in the axis lists (P-AXIS-00573), the filters remain enabled even after axis exchange. 20 Version: 1.02 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC FIR-Filter
## Page 21

Programming 5 Programming Syntax: #FILTER [ON | OFF] [ORDER=.. ORDER_TIME=.. SHARE=.. AX_DEV=.. FCUT=.. ACC_FACT=.. QUALITY=.. ] ON Enable FIR filter. OFF Disable FIR filter. ORDER=.. Specify filter order ORDER_TIME=.. Specify filter order over time in [µs] SHARE=.. Define the degree of effectiveness (analogous to P-AXIS-00590) of the filter in [%] value range 0 – 100 default value = 100 AX_DEV=.. Specify the tolerance for tolerance monitoring in [mm, inch *]. Default value = 0 (no tolerance monitoring). *with active P-CHAN-00439 FCUT=.. Specify the cut-off frequency (analogous to (P-AXIS-00585) of the filter in [Hz] default value = 30 ACC_FACT=.. Increase the path velocity at block transitions with FIR filter enabled. The greater the value setting, the less the velocity is reduced at the block transition. This requires a valid setting of P-AXIS-00013 (a_trans_weight) for the axes. Value range = 1.0 – 10.0 Default value =: 1.0 QUALITY=.. Specify the filter quality of the filter core curve value range: 0 < QUALITY <= 1 default value = 1.0 Parameter available as of V3.1.3075.04 The #FILTER ON/OFF command enables or disables all the FIR filters of the axes in the channel. It is possible to use FIR filters on all axes. It is also possible to use different filters for each axis by axis- specific configuration in the axis lists. FIR filters can be globally enabled or disabled and reparameterised across all axes in the NC program during machining (see Programming example [} 22]). TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 1.02 21 FIR-Filter
## Page 22

Programming Tolerance monitoring can only be configured and activated in the NC program. Tolerance monitoring is programmed by the parameter AX_DEV. It ensures that every axis remains within the specified tolerance [mm, inch]. Tolerance monitoring always monitors all axes and therefore can only be controlled globally in the NC program. Tolerance monitoring in only active if AX_DEF was specified with a corresponding tolerance. NC program with 90° corner Program with a simple square contour. Traverse feed rate=4000mm/min, slope type=TRAPEZ (non-linear) and tolerance (AX_DEV)=0.001mm. Setting in the axis lists: • filter_fir.type 1 • filter_fir.order 40 The contour is traversed 3 times: 1. first with filter and tolerance monitoring 2. only with filter 3. finally as reference without filter enabled. N010 G00 G90 X0 Y0 Z0 N020 #SLOPE [TYPE=TRAPEZ] (Contour with filter and tolerance monitoring) N030 #FILTER ON [AX_DEV=0.001] N040 G01 X0 Y1 F4000 N050 G01 X1 Y1 N060 G01 X1 Y0 N070 G01 X0 Y0 (Contour only with filter) N080 #FILTER ON N090 G01 X0 Y1 F4000 N100 G01 X1 Y1 N110 G01 X1 Y0 N120 G01 X0 Y0 (Contour without filter or tolerance monitoring) N130 #FILTER OFF N140 G01 X0 Y1 F4000 N150 G01 X1 Y1 N160 G01 X1 Y0 N170 G01 X0 Y0 N180 M30 22 Version: 1.02 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC FIR-Filter
## Page 23

Programming x 10⁴ 1 0,995 x 10⁴ 1 0,99 0,985 0,8 0,98 0,5 1 1,5 0,6 Set point 2 0,4 0,2 0 0,2 0,4 0,6 0,8 1 x 10⁴ Set point 1 Fig. 11: 2D contour programming example TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 1.02 23 FIR-Filter
## Page 24

Parameters 6 Parameters 6.1 Overview ID Axis parameters Description P-AXIS-00573 enable Enable axis-specific FIR filter P-AXIS-00585 fcut Cut-off frequency of the FIR filter P-AXIS-00586 type FIR filter type P-AXIS-00587 order Filter order P-AXIS-00590 share FIR filter share factor P-AXIS-00591 order_time Filter order in time [µs] P-AXIS-00593 quality Filter quality Description Axis parameters Programming parameter FIR filter type filter_fir.type - Filter enable filter_fir.enable ON Filter disable - OFF Order of the filter filter_fir.order ORDER Filter order in time [µs] filter_fir.order_time ORDER_TIME Filter share filter_fir.share SHARE Cut-off frequency of the FIR filter filter_fir.fcut FCUT Limit value for tolerance monitoring [mm, - AX_DEV inch] Path velocity at block transitions - ACC_FACT Filter quality filter_fir.quality QUALITY 24 Version: 1.02 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC FIR-Filter
## Page 25

Parameters 6.2 Description P-AXIS-00573 Enable axis-specific FIR filter Description This parameter controls the general enabling/disabling of the filter function. Parameter filter_fir.enable Data type BOOLEAN Data range 0: Filter is disabled 1: Filter is enabled Axis types T, R, S Dimension T: ---- R,S: ---- Default value 0 drive types. ---- Remarks The filter function is only enabled if a valid filter type (P-AXIS-00586) is selected, otherwise the filter is disabled. Alternatively, the filter can also be enabled or disabled with the NC command #FILTER ON/OFF. The parameter is available as of V3.1.3075.00 P-AXIS-00586 Type of axis-specific FIR filter Description The parameter defines the FIR filter type Parameter filter_fir.type Data type UNS32 Data range 0 – No filter 1 – Moving average filter 2 – Gaussian filter 3 – Windowed sinc filter 4 – Time delay filter Axis types T, R, S Dimension T: ---- R,S: ---- Default value 0 drive types. ---- Remarks The filter function is only enabled if a valid filter type is selected, otherwise the filter is disabled. The parameter is available as of V3.1.3075.00 P-AXIS-00587 Order of axis-specific FIR filter Description This parameter defines the order of FIR axis filters. The filter is off when order = 0. In order to use a configured filter effectively, it is absolutely necessary to specify order > 0. Parameter filter_fir.order Data type UNS32 Data range 0 ≤ order ≤ 200 (*) Axis types T, R, S Dimension T: ---- R,S: ---- Default value 0 drive types. ---- Remarks Alternatively, filter effectiveness can be achieved by assigning a valid value in P- AXIS-00591 or by programming a filter order in the NC program. TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 1.02 25 FIR-Filter
## Page 26

Parameters (*) The data range of the filter type (P-AXIS-00586) time delay filter is 0 ≤ order ≤ 100 The parameter is available as of V3.1.3075.00 P-AXIS-00591 Order of axis-specific FIR filter in time Description Alternatively to P-AXIS-00587 , this parameter specifies the order of the FIR filter. If this parameter is smaller than the NC cycle time, the filter is disabled. This parameter is used only if P-AXIS-00587 was not configured and no filter order was programmed by the NC program. Parameter filter_fir.order_time Data type UNS32 Data range NC cycle time ≤ order_time ≤ 200 * NC cycle time (*) Axis types T, R, S Dimension T: µs R,S: µs Default value 0 Drive types ---- Remarks (*) The data range of the filter type (P-AXIS-00586) time delay filter is NC cycle time ≤ order_time ≤ 100* NC cycle time The parameter is available as of V3.1.3075.00 P-AXIS-00590 FIR filter share factor Description This parameter defines the effectiveness of the FIR filter. When the parameter is assigned: • share = 0 : no filter effect • share = 100 : the filter is 100% effective on axis setpoints (default) Parameter filter_fir.share Data type UNS32 Data range 0 ≤ order ≤ 100 Axis types T, R, S Dimension T: % R,S: % Default value 100 drive types. ---- Remarks The parameter is available as of V3.1.3075.00 P-AXIS-00585 Cut-off frequency of the FIR filter Description This parameter defines the cut-off frequency of the FIR filter. This parameter is only relevant for FIR filters which consider a cut-off frequency. This is dependent on the filter type of the FIR filter (P-AXIS-00586); the cut-off frequency is only considered with type 3 (windowed sinc filter). Parameter filter_fir.fcut Data type REAL64 Data range 1 ≤ fcut Axis types T, R, S Dimension T: Hz R,S: Hz Default value 30 drive types. ---- Remarks The parameter is available as of V3.1.3075.00 26 Version: 1.02 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC FIR-Filter
## Page 27

Parameters P-AXIS-00593 FIR filter quality Description This parameter influences the shape of the FIR filter core and therefore setpoint smoothing. The quality then specifies the width of the filter core curve. The higher the quality, the wider the filter core curve and the stronger the smoothing effect of the filter. The width of the actual filter core in the shape of the specified order is not affected by bandwidth. Parameter filter_fir.quality Data type REAL64 Data range 0 < quality <= 1 Axis types T, R Dimension T, R: - S: - Default value 1.0 drive types. ---- Remarks The parameter is available as of Build V3.1.3075.04 and only acts on filter type 2 ( P- AXIS-00586 – Gaussian) The parameter is available as of V3.1.3075.04 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 1.02 27 FIR-Filter
## Page 28

Support and Service 7 Support and Service Beckhoff and their partners around the world offer comprehensive support and service, making available fast and competent assistance with all questions related to Beckhoff products and system solutions. Download finder Our download finder contains all the files that we offer you for downloading. You will find application reports, technical documentation, technical drawings, configuration files and much more. The downloads are available in various formats. Beckhoff's branch offices and representatives Please contact your Beckhoff branch office or representative for local support and service on Beckhoff products! The addresses of Beckhoff's branch offices and representatives round the world can be found on our internet page: www.beckhoff.com You will also find further documentation for Beckhoff components there. Beckhoff Support Support offers you comprehensive technical assistance, helping you not only with the application of individual Beckhoff products, but also with other, wide-ranging services: • support • design, programming and commissioning of complex automation systems • and extensive training program for Beckhoff system components Hotline: +49 5246 963-157 e-mail: support@beckhoff.com Beckhoff Service The Beckhoff Service Center supports you in all matters of after-sales service: • on-site service • repair service • spare parts service • hotline service Hotline: +49 5246 963-460 e-mail: service@beckhoff.com Beckhoff Headquarters Beckhoff Automation Gmb H & Co. KG Huelshorstweg 20 33415 Verl Germany Phone: +49 5246 963-0 e-mail: info@beckhoff.com web: www.beckhoff.com 28 Version: 1.02 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC FIR-Filter
## Page 29

Index Index P P-AXIS-00573 25 P-AXIS-00585 26 P-AXIS-00586 25 P-AXIS-00587 25 P-AXIS-00590 26 P-AXIS-00591 26 P-AXIS-00593 27 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 1.02 29 FIR-Filter
## Page 31

More Information: www.beckhoff.com/TF5200 Beckhoff Automation Gmb H & Co. KG Hülshorstweg 20 33415 Verl Germany Phone: +49 5246 9630 info@beckhoff.com www.beckhoff.com
