---
title: "TF5200_data_streaming_en"
product: "TF5200"
category: "Motion_Control"
tags: ["NC"]
language: "EN"
document_type: "Manual"
version: "1.06"
source_pdf: "https://download.beckhoff.com/download/Document/automation/twincat3/TF5200_data_streaming_en.pdf"
release_date: "2025-06-10"
---
Functional description | EN TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Data streaming 6/10/2025 | Version: 1.06
## Page 3

Notes on the documentation Notes on the documentation This description is only intended for the use of trained specialists in control and automation engineering who are familiar with the applicable national standards. It is essential that the documentation and the following notes and explanations are followed when installing and commissioning the components. It is the duty of the technical personnel to use the documentation published at the respective time of each installation and commissioning. The responsible staff must ensure that the application or use of the products described satisfy all the requirements for safety, including all the relevant laws, regulations, guidelines and standards. Disclaimer The documentation has been prepared with care. The products described are, however, constantly under development. We reserve the right to revise and change the documentation at any time and without prior announcement. No claims for the modification of products that have already been supplied may be made on the basis of the data, diagrams and descriptions in this documentation. Trademarks Beckhoff®, Twin CAT®, Twin CAT/BSD®, TC/BSD®, Ether CAT®, Ether CAT G®, Ether CAT G10®, Ether CAT P®, Safety over Ether CAT®, Twin SAFE®, XFC®, XTS® and XPlanar® are registered trademarks of and licensed by Beckhoff Automation Gmb H. Other designations used in this publication may be trademarks whose use by third parties for their own purposes could violate the rights of the owners. Patent Pending The Ether CAT technology is patent protected, in particular by the following applications and patents: EP1590927, EP1789857, EP1456722, EP2137893, DE102015105702 with corresponding applications or registrations in various other countries. Ether CAT® is registered trademark and patented technology, licensed by Beckhoff Automation Gmb H, Germany Copyright © Beckhoff Automation Gmb H & Co. KG, Germany. The reproduction, distribution and utilisation of this document as well as the communication of its contents to others without express authorisation are prohibited. Offenders will be held liable for the payment of damages. All rights reserved in the event of the grant of a patent, utility model or design. TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 1.06 3 Data streaming
## Page 4

General and safety instructions General and safety instructions Icons used and their meanings This documentation uses the following icons next to the safety instruction and the associated text. Please read the (safety) instructions carefully and comply with them at all times. Icons in explanatory text 1. Indicates an action. ð Indicates an action statement. DANGER Acute danger to life! If you fail to comply with the safety instruction next to this icon, there is immediate danger to human life and health. CAUTION Personal injury and damage to machines! If you fail to comply with the safety instruction next to this icon, it may result in personal injury or damage to machines. NOTICE Restriction or error This icon describes restrictions or warns of errors. Tips and other notes This icon indicates information to assist in general understanding or to provide additional informa- tion. General example Example that clarifies the text. NC programming example Programming example (complete NC program or program sequence) of the described function or NC com- mand. Specific version information Optional or restricted function. The availability of this function depends on the configuration and the scope of the version. 4 Version: 1.06 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Data streaming
## Page 5

Table of contents Table of contents Notes on the documentation.................................................................................................................... 3 General and safety instructions.............................................................................................................. 4 1 Overview.................................................................................................................................................... 8 2 Description of data streaming................................................................................................................. 9 2.1 General........................................................................................................................................... 10 2.2 Basic characteristics....................................................................................................................... 11 2.3 Extended characteristics of data streaming.................................................................................... 13 2.3.1 Flushing the NC channel (#FLUSH CONTINUE)............................................................. 13 2.3.2 Subroutine call................................................................................................................. 14 2.3.3 Loops and branches......................................................................................................... 15 2.3.4 Comments........................................................................................................................ 16 2.3.5 Block search..................................................................................................................... 18 2.3.6 Jump to label.................................................................................................................... 19 2.3.7 Tool radius compensation, contouring, splines................................................................ 20 2.4 Automatic program commanding as comparison............................................................................ 21 3 Parameter................................................................................................................................................. 23 3.1 Overview......................................................................................................................................... 23 3.2 Description...................................................................................................................................... 23 4 Error handling.......................................................................................................................................... 24 4.1 Exceptional situations and error cases........................................................................................... 24 4.2 Data transfer via COM object.......................................................................................................... 24 5 Example................................................................................................................................................... 25 6 Support and Service............................................................................................................................... 26 Index......................................................................................................................................................... 27 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 5 Data streaming
## Page 6

Table of contents 6 Version: TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Data streaming
## Page 7

List of figures List of figures Fig. 1 NC commanding via various interfaces........................................................................................ 9 Fig. 2 Effectiveness of data streaming................................................................................................... 9 Fig. 3 Graphic showing how data streaming functions........................................................................... 10 Fig. 4 The area marked in red is no longer considered after M30......................................................... 11 Fig. 5 A data packet may contain one or several NC lines.................................................................... 12 Fig. 6 Online influences by the PLC....................................................................................................... 21 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 1.06 7 Data streaming
## Page 8

Overview 1 Overview Task NC machining can be commanded by a variety of different interfaces and functions: 1. Automatic program: Start a previously created program 2. Manual block: Specify an NC command possibly consisting of several lines 3. Streaming: Specify sequential subcommands online (not described here) 4. PLC: commanding via PLC interface in compliance with PLCopen Characteristics Many user commands or other geometry profiles are only defined online, i.e. when the workpiece is already being machined. The programming environment and the PLC display user actions interactively to send commands to the controllers. Among other things, this affects: • creating the geometry • user commands and forward/backward motion • aborting machining with subsequent resumption Due to the incremental online specification of program parts, users can define and influence the process in real time. Parametrisation Parameterisation is executed using P-CHAN-00158 [} 23]. This and other commands are described in detail in the chapter Parameters [} 23]. Mandatory note on references to other documents For the sake of clarity, links to other documents and parameters are abbreviated, e.g. [PROG] for the Programming Manual or P-AXIS-00001 for an axis parameter. For technical reasons, these links only function in the Online Help (HTML5, CHM) but not in pdf files since pdfs do not support cross-linking. 8 Version: 1.06 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Data streaming
## Page 9

Description of data streaming 2 Description of data streaming NC commanding via various interfaces is depicted in the graphic below: %program N30 Y300 N10 G01 X10 N20 $IF P1 ... ... N30 M23 ... N10 G01 X10 M30 MC_<move> CNC TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 1.06 9 Data streaming maerts atad X100 start start MDI program start Streaming PLC Fig. 1: NC commanding via various interfaces The effectiveness of data streaming is depicted in the graphic below: HMI or N40 X0 CAD/ N30 Y300 data stream CAM- N20 Y200 System User N10 G01 X10 read next CNC write movement from movement stream to stream Fig. 2: Effectiveness of data streaming
## Page 10

Description of data streaming 2.1 General With the incremental specification of motion commands (streaming), the CAD/CAM system or the PLC stipulates the next path segment to be travelled (or even several segments). In this way, motion information not previously specified can still be modified until shortly before entering the command. HMI or CAD/CAM- System 2. write movement to stream User 1. activate DEC streaming TGC Dyn Prep MAx Ipo Ax Ctrl 10 Version: 1.06 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Data streaming gnidoced gnitucexe ssecorp ssecorp N40 X0 N30 Y300 data stream N20 Y200 N10 G01 X10 3. read next movement Fig. 3: Graphic showing how data streaming functions
## Page 11

Description of data streaming 2.2 Basic characteristics Activation The name of the streaming program is defined in the channel parameter list: stream_prog_file (see P- CHAN-00158). If this virtual streaming NC program is started as the main program (automatic mode) or as a global subroutine, the data is automatically read out from the streaming interface. Switchover to streaming mode takes place automatically. For users, this program then behaves as if it was available as a real NC program in the file system. Deactivation/termination Streaming mode can be terminated normally by: 1. A main program end (M2/M30) or 2. A return at subroutine end (M17/M29) After normal termination of a streaming program, the remaining contents of the interface are re- tained but data already read with the program end data packet is discarded. That is to say that, after a program end M2/M30 or M17/M29 is written, he user should first wait until the streaming interface is read completely and empty. Only then can it be ensured that the next streaming program is cor- rectly executed from the very start. Behaviour at program end To supplement the above note, the area marked in red in the figure below represents a program start. This is not considered since it was already read out when the previous program end M30 was read. write write write write write i-1 i i+1 i+2 i+3 N10 X... N20 Y... N99 M30 %Start N50 G01 N60 X1 data stream read read read j-1 j j+1 Fig. 4: The area marked in red is no longer considered after M30 The following programming example requires the following parameters in the channel parameter list: ; Excerpt from the channel parameter list ; Activate streaming via a global subroutine streaming_prog_file streaming.nc Activating streaming when the program is invoked N10 G01 X200 F1000 N20 X240 Y100 N30 X200 Y0 N40 L streaming.nc TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 1.06 11 Data streaming
## Page 12

Description of data streaming Description of the chronological sequence The data stream can be written via a corresponding interface object where one data packet can consist of one or several NC lines. If there are several read accesses in succession, the individual data packets are sorted according to chronological access and are available to the CNC for read access as a data packet consisting of several lines. On extraction, the data packets are no longer extracted singly. Instead, all data available at the time of the read access is extracted as a common data packet (program segment). write write write write write i-1 i i+1 i+2 i+3 N10 X... N20 Y... N30 Z... N40 X... N50 G01 N60 X1 data stream read read read j-1 j j+1 Fig. 5: A data packet may contain one or several NC lines. Each NC line must be terminated by a carriage return (ASCII value = 13) and line feed (ASCII value = 10). Interrupt If the data stream is not written any further, this results in a temporary motion interrupt. The motion can then be resumed by writing the data stream. Abort/reset/delete Streaming mode is explicitly disabled in case of an NC reset and the previous contents of the streaming interface are deleted. 12 Version: 1.06 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Data streaming
## Page 13

Description of data streaming 2.3 Extended characteristics of data streaming 2.3.1 Flushing the NC channel (#FLUSH CONTINUE) Cross-block considerations Planning considers several geometry blocks to include block transitions and special NC functions (e.g. contouring, tool radius compensation, etc.). The blocks are first saved internally and considered jointly, i.e. the blocks are not executed directly after commanding. Flushing the NC channel (#FLUSH CONTINUE) The effect of the #FLUSH CONTINUE command is to execute all NC blocks currently saved in the NC channel, i.e. the memory effect of the NC channel is cancelled temporarily. The last motion block programmed before #FLUSH CONTINUE is therefore immediately enabled for output. Velocity If the next motion block is presented in good time before an NC block end, motion is resumed without stopping or without reducing the velocity. If no further motion block exists, motion is stopped temporarily. The command Flush NC channel cannot be used for cross-block functions (e.g. active tool radius compensation). Flushing NC channel N10 G01 X200 F1000 N20 X240 Y100 N30 X200 Y0 N40 #FLUSH CONTINUE TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 1.06 13 Data streaming
## Page 14

Description of data streaming 2.3.2 Subroutine call L <subroutine> It is possible to invoke a global subroutine from the incremental program sequence. • Subroutine call • Administration of nesting • Return to streaming (M17, M29) • Management of cache elements (streaming, program) 14 Version: 1.06 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Data streaming
## Page 15

Description of data streaming Streaming instructions with subroutine invocation N10 G01 X200 F1000 N20 X240 Y100 N30 X200 Y0 N40 L subprogram.nc 2.3.3 Loops and branches Control structures Control structures with positioning of the file pointer in backward direction (loops) are not permitted. This type of loop must be resolved in streaming programs and replaced with linearised NC block sequences. The following control structures result in output of an error message and streaming mode is aborted: • $FOR - $ENDFOR • $DO - $ENDDO • $REPEAT - $UNTIL • $WHILE - $ENDWHILE By contrast, control structures that only contain sequential program branches in the forward direction can also be used fully across several data packets. • $SWITCH - $CASE - $DEFAULT – $ENDSWITCH • $IF - $ELSE - $ELSEIF - $ENDIF TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 1.06 15 Data streaming
## Page 16

Description of data streaming Jump list in the forward direction 1st data packet %switchstream N010 G00 X0 Y0 Z0 N020 P1=10 N030 N040 $SWITCH P1 N050 $CASE 1 N060 X10 N070 $BREAK N080 $CASE 5 N090 X50 2nd data packet N100 $BREAK N110 $CASE 9 N120 X90 N130 $BREAK N140 $CASE 10 N150 X100 N160 $ENDSWITCH : M30 2.3.4 Comments Comment lines or blocks in streaming mode are permitted and can be used fully, also across several data packets. • ( <Comment text in parentheses>) • ( <Comment text after open parentheses up to block end> • ; <Comment text after semicolon up to block end> • Comment blocks between #COMMENT BEGIN / END 16 Version: 1.06 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Data streaming
## Page 17

Description of data streaming Comments in streaming mode 1st data packet %commentstream N010 G00 X0 Y0 Z0 (Move to start position) N17 G53 G90 (Absolute dimension) N18 G00 X0 N19 G00 Y0 N20 G00 Z0 N21 G54 G90 ;Zero offsets #COMMENT BEGIN #HSC ON [OPMODE 2] N22 ( ================= ) N23 (PROG NAME : Test.nc) N24 (DATE : 24.02.2010 ) 2nd data packet N25 (HISTORY :...) N26 ( ================= ) N27 G00 X17.021 Z-90.0 N28 Y1.036 N29 S30000 M03 N30 G01 X17.021 Y6.036 F300 N31 G01 X17.021 Y8.062 F4000 N32 G01 X14.4 Y9.216 #COMMENT END N33 G01 X14.4 Y9.216 F30000 N34 G01 X14.174 Y9.313 N35 G01 X13.987 Y9.39 N36 G01 X13.845 Y9.442 N37 G01 X13.755 Y9.468 N38 G01 X13.718 Y9.468 N39 G01 X13.718 Y9.468 N40 G01 X13.718 Y9.464 Z-88.029 N41 G01 X13.718 Y9.456 Z-86.51 N42 G01 X13.718 Y9.443 Z-84.787 N43 G01 X13.718 Y9.425 Z-83.063 N44 G01 X13.718 Y9.403 Z-81.339 N45 G01 X13.718 Y9.379 Z-79.615 N46 G01 X13.718 Y9.354 Z-77.892 N47 G01 X13.718 Y9.329 Z-76.168 N48 G01 X13.718 Y9.306 Z-74.444 N49 G01 X13.718 Y9.286 Z-72.721 N50 G01 X13.718 Y9.271 Z-70.997 N51 G01 X13.718 Y9.262 Z-69.273 N52 G01 X13.718 Y9.261 Z-67.549 N53 G01 X13.718 Y9.261 Z-65.825 N54 G01 X13.718 Y9.261 Z-64.102 : M30 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 1.06 17 Data streaming
## Page 18

Description of data streaming 2.3.5 Block search It is permissible to use block search in streaming to the continuation position by specifying • block number • block counter • file offset to restore internal states (e.g. coolant on, spindle on, etc.). Basically, streaming is also possible in combination with block search [FCT-C6]. However, the block search function can also be processed via streaming, i.e. skipped blocks are simply omitted during streaming. In this case, establishing the internal state after the skipped program sequence and returning to the contour must also be processed in the streaming mode itself. 18 Version: 1.06 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Data streaming
## Page 19

Description of data streaming 2.3.6 Jump to label $GOTO Using the $GOTO command, it is only possible to jump in the forward direction. • Jump within data packet • Jump to next data packet, post-loading Jumps in the backward direction are not permitted and lead to the output of an error message and streaming mode abort. Jump in the forward direction 1. 1st data package N01 G01 X0 Y0 Z0 F1000 N10 G01 X20 N20 $GOTO N40 N30 G01 Z40 N40: G01 X40 N50 $GOTO N80 N60 G01 Y20 N70 G01 Y40 2. 1st data package N80: G01 X-20 N90 G01 X-40 3. 1st data package : M30 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 1.06 19 Data streaming
## Page 20

Description of data streaming 2.3.7 Tool radius compensation, contouring, splines Cross-block functions Cross-block functions are possible if no implicit/explicit emptying of the channel (#FLUSH) is commanded when the function is active. Cross-block functions %streaming-spline #SPLINE TYPE BSPLINE G151 G134 50 N36335 X-1.5586 Y-16.3853 (M122 N36336 X-1.5666 Y-16.4702 Z2.9971 N36337 X-1.5749 Y-16.5569 Z2.9881 N36338 X-1.5832 Y-16.6448 Z2.9725 N36339 X-1.5917 Y-16.7332 Z2.9501 N36340 X-1.6 Y-16.8214 Z2.9207 N36341 X-1.6083 Y-16.9086 Z2.8841 N36342 X-1.6164 Y-16.9939 Z2.8403 N36343 X-1.6243 Y-17.0764 Z2.7895 N36344 X-1.6318 Y-17.1553 Z2.732 N36345 X-1.6389 Y-17.2298 Z2.6681 N36346 X-1.6455 Y-17.2992 Z2.5983 N36347 X-1.6515 Y-17.3629 Z2.5235 N36348 X-1.657 Y-17.4202 (Z2.4442 N36349 X-1.6618 Y-17.4707 Z2.3613 N36350 X-1.6659 Y-17.5143 Z2.2757 N36351 X-1.6694 Y-17.5508 Z2.1881 N36352 X-1.6722 Y-17.5801 Z2.0995 N36353 X-1.6743 Y-17.6023 Z2.0107 N36354 X-1.6758 Y-17.6178 Z1.9224 N36355 X-1.6766 Y-17.6268 Z1.8353 … 20 Version: 1.06 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Data streaming
## Page 21

Description of data streaming 2.4 Automatic program commanding as comparison Automatic program In automatic mode the user generates the program in advance. The basic execution of sequences (geometry) is then defined. After the NC program is started, it may/can no longer be modified. The process can still be influenced at the time of program decoding by querying variables/parameters over the user interface or the PLC (conditional branches). At the time of program execution, the axes are moved in accordance with the programmed geometry and information is sent to the PLC or execution is synchronised with the PLC. The PLC can still influence the process online by using specific NC functions: • Velocity: feed hold, override, reduced velocity (safety) • interrupt/resume, abort, move backward %program N10 G01 X10 N20 $IF P1 ... 3. file open N30 M23 1. create / read ... Channel 1 M30 program User HMI or DEC CAD/CAM- 2. start program System TGC Dyn Prep MAx Ipo Ax Ctrl TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 1.06 21 Data streaming gnidoced gnitucexe ssecorp ssecorp PLC Fig. 6: Online influences by the PLC Function/action Automatic program Data streaming Start/initialise NC status data Each time the program is started, the Only at the start of streaming, i.e. channel's default settings are status data of the NC remains valid restored, i.e. programs do not throughout the duration of streaming influence each other globally (exception: modal parameters, etc.). Response to errors NC reset with reset of NC status data NC reset with reset of NC status data
## Page 22

Description of data streaming Function/action Automatic program Data streaming An NC reset without reset of the NC is currently not possible. Data throughput Implicit by access to the file system Provided by filling the data stream "in good time", i.e. axis motion can be interrupted by delaying filling. Velocity planning, look Cross-block velocity planning is Planning limited, may be only ahead (HSC) possible to the full extent possible for the specified blocks Process changes No longer possible after program Program parts not yet specified can start if branches (e.g. via external still be modified. variables) are not already considered in the program. Jumps/loops Jumps to program flags possible, No return jumps possible, no loop higher-level language constructs with programming possible loops possible Fast forward Via block search (jump to block By programming system with number, block counter, file position) corresponding omission of forward areas -> system state at forward position is established automatically -> system state at forward position must be established manually. Backward motion NC functions, possible at any time by Via NC functions or by specifying an PLC command inverted data stream Automatic geometry changes Possible via standard NC functions By CAD/CAM system, no at the block transitions consideration of several path (phases, radii, smoothing, segments in the NC because splines, etc.) execution is always enabled immediately. Without implicit #FLUSH, also possible by NC Tool radius compensation Standard NC function To be executed by CAD/CAM system Without implicit #FLUSH, also possible by NC 22 Version: 1.06 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Data streaming
## Page 23

Parameter 3 Parameter 3.1 Overview Constant Description MAX_PROGRAM_STREAM_SIZE 4094: Maximum size of the data stream in bytes MAX_PROGRAM_STREAM_INPUT_SI 992: Maximum size of a data packet in bytes that is transferred ZE with each write access. ID Parameter Description P-CHAN-00158 streaming_prog_file Name of the file (main program/global subroutine) that automatically triggers a changeover to streaming mode when it is started. COM interface mc_program_stream_ Interface object to describe the data stream. w 3.2 Description P-CHAN-00158 Program name for automatic streaming Description When this program is opened as a main program or a subroutine, the ASCII data is not read in from the file system, but is requested from the data streaming interface. The data input is therefore diverted transparently to the streaming interface. If the program name is not entered, the streaming function can not be activated Parameter streaming_prog_file Data type STRING Data range <empty_string>: Streaming function deactivated (default). <prog_name>: Name of the file (main program/global subroutine) that automatically triggers a changeover to streaming mode when it is started. Dimension ---- Default value * Remarks Parameterisation example: streaming_prog_file streaming.nc (name of streaming program) * Note: The default value of variables is a blank string. Data stream for incremental program commanding Description This COM interface object can write the data stream with incremental NC commands. One complete NC line must always be written. Several NC lines may also be written jointly in one write access. Each NC line must be terminated by a carriage return (ASCII value = 13) and line feed (ASCII value = 10). Type String; the string length depends on the application Value range ASCII characters HMI elements mc_program_stream_w Access Read, write Index Offset 0x90 (Index Group = 0x000201<ii> where <ii> = channel) TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 1.06 23 Data streaming
## Page 24

Error handling 4 Error handling 4.1 Exceptional situations and error cases NC line incorrectly terminated Each NC line must be terminated by a carriage return (ASCII value = 13) and line feed (ASCII value = 10). If this is not the case, processing is aborted with the error message 21476 "Streaming data does not contain a correct line end marker". (P-ERR-21476) Syntax errors Miscellaneous syntactical errors in the data stream are reported in the same way as a comparable error in the NC program. 4.2 Data transfer via COM object Data is transferred via the COM object "mc_program_stream_w" to the CNC. If the CNC is unable to currently accept new data the CNC message 11012 – “Error writing the object” (warning) is output. At the same time, writing the CNC object causes a negative acknowledgement. The object must be re-written in one of the next cycles. Using the streaming interface this message recurs repeatedly if a large volume of data is written at short time intervals. For correctly implemented clients, the message is non-critical and therefore classified as a warning. 24 Version: 1.06 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Data streaming
## Page 25

Example 5 Example Test: driver for file in data stream #define ISGPORT_COMTASK 553 #define IDS_OFFSET_COM_DATA_STREAM 0x90 idx_group = 0x20100 + channel_nr; idx_offset = IDS_OFFSET_COM_DATA_STREAM; BOOLEAN write_line_to_stream( char * p_source, unsigned length) { int result; result = Ads Sync Write Req( p_ams Addr, idx_group, idx_offset, length, p_source); if (0 != result) return FALSE; return TRUE; } while (NULL != fgets( in Line, MAX_LINE_LEN, p In File)) { unsigned long length = strlen( in Line); // Attention : ensure line closed with "carriage return" & "line feed" ! if (in Line[length-1] == '\n') { in Line[length-1] = '\r'; in Line[length++] = '\n'; } f_ret = write_line_to_stream( in Line, length); while (FALSE == f_ret) { Sleep(500); f_ret = write_line_to_stream( in Line, length); printf("."); } in Line[length] = 0; // just for correct print printf("%d/%d) %s", length, c_written_sum, in Line); c_written_sum += length; } TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 1.06 25 Data streaming
## Page 26

Support and Service 6 Support and Service Beckhoff and their partners around the world offer comprehensive support and service, making available fast and competent assistance with all questions related to Beckhoff products and system solutions. Download finder Our download finder contains all the files that we offer you for downloading. You will find application reports, technical documentation, technical drawings, configuration files and much more. The downloads are available in various formats. Beckhoff's branch offices and representatives Please contact your Beckhoff branch office or representative for local support and service on Beckhoff products! The addresses of Beckhoff's branch offices and representatives round the world can be found on our internet page: www.beckhoff.com You will also find further documentation for Beckhoff components there. Beckhoff Support Support offers you comprehensive technical assistance, helping you not only with the application of individual Beckhoff products, but also with other, wide-ranging services: • support • design, programming and commissioning of complex automation systems • and extensive training program for Beckhoff system components Hotline: +49 5246 963-157 e-mail: support@beckhoff.com Beckhoff Service The Beckhoff Service Center supports you in all matters of after-sales service: • on-site service • repair service • spare parts service • hotline service Hotline: +49 5246 963-460 e-mail: service@beckhoff.com Beckhoff Headquarters Beckhoff Automation Gmb H & Co. KG Huelshorstweg 20 33415 Verl Germany Phone: +49 5246 963-0 e-mail: info@beckhoff.com web: www.beckhoff.com 26 Version: 1.06 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Data streaming
## Page 27

Index Index P P-CHAN-00158 23 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 1.06 27 Data streaming
## Page 29

More Information: www.beckhoff.com/TF5200 Beckhoff Automation Gmb H & Co. KG Hülshorstweg 20 33415 Verl Germany Phone: +49 5246 9630 info@beckhoff.com www.beckhoff.com
