---
title: "TF5200_diagnosis_upload_en"
product: "TF5200"
category: "Motion_Control"
tags: ["NC"]
language: "EN"
document_type: "Manual"
version: "1.031"
source_pdf: "https://download.beckhoff.com/download/Document/automation/twincat3/TF5200_diagnosis_upload_en.pdf"
release_date: "2025-06-06"
---
Functional description | EN TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Diagnosis upload 6/6/2025 | Version: 1.031
## Page 3

Table of contents Table of contents 1 Overview.................................................................................................................................................... 6 2 Description................................................................................................................................................ 7 2.1 General............................................................................................................................................. 7 2.2 Commanding the upload................................................................................................................. 10 2.2.1 Commanding via the PLC................................................................................................ 11 2.3 Parameterisation of an upload........................................................................................................ 14 2.4 Execute upload............................................................................................................................... 16 3 Programming........................................................................................................................................... 17 4 Parameter................................................................................................................................................. 20 4.1 Overview......................................................................................................................................... 20 4.2 Start-up parameters........................................................................................................................ 21 4.3 CNC objects.................................................................................................................................... 23 4.4 PLC parameters.............................................................................................................................. 25 4.5 PLC parameter up to CNC Build V2.20xx....................................................................................... 25 5 Support and Service............................................................................................................................... 27 Index......................................................................................................................................................... 28 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 3 Diagnosis upload
## Page 4

Table of contents 4 Version: TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Diagnosis upload
## Page 5

List of figures List of figures Fig. 1 Overview of Diagnosis upload function ....................................................................................... 7 Fig. 2 Upload of diagnosis data.............................................................................................................. 8 Fig. 3 CNC interfaces............................................................................................................................. 9 Fig. 4 Interfaces for commanding the upload......................................................................................... 10 Fig. 5 Upload signal profile with control unit enabled ............................................................................ 12 Fig. 6 Upload signal profile with control unit disabled............................................................................ 13 Fig. 7 Repeated start of an upload by the PLC with control unit enabled.............................................. 16 Fig. 8 Abort a current upload by the PLC with control unit enabled....................................................... 16 Fig. 9 CNC objects in the Object Browser.............................................................................................. 20 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 1.031 5 Diagnosis upload
## Page 6

Overview 1 Overview Task The Diagnosis upload function is used to save the current system status of the CNC to a file. It can be executed at any time while the CNC is running. The diagnosis data can then be used for a CNC analysis. Possible applications The upload of diagnosis data can be initiated by the PLC, an NC command or by CNC objects. CNC diagnosis data is used for: • error analysis • remote diagnosis / remote support • report on system state Parameterisation The upload can be parameterised by: • NC command [} 17] • start-up parameters [} 21] • or CNC objects [} 23] Programming The upload of diagnosis data is requested by the NC command #DIAGNOSIS [} 17] and individual parameters can be set. Mandatory note on references to other documents For the sake of clarity, links to other documents and parameters are abbreviated, e.g. [PROG] for the Programming Manual or P-AXIS-00001 for an axis parameter. For technical reasons, these links only function in the Online Help (HTML5, CHM) but not in pdf files since pdfs do not support cross-linking. 6 Version: 1.031 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Diagnosis upload
## Page 7

Description 2 Description 2.1 General Diagnosis data is an important tool to analyse the state of the CNC. This data, especially error messages or an undesired malfunction, can be used to analyse the current state of the CNC. Fig. 1: Overview of Diagnosis upload function From the viewpoint of the CNC, the term upload is the supply of all collected diagnosis data depending on the parameterisation. TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 1.031 7 Diagnosis upload
## Page 8

Description Fig. 2: Upload of diagnosis data 8 Version: 1.031 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Diagnosis upload
## Page 9

Description The following interfaces have an impact on the CNC: • CNC parameters • ISO program • HMI • PLC Fig. 3: CNC interfaces When diagnosis data is uploaded, data relating to individual CNC functions is internally collected and logged to a file. The data can then be analysed after the write process is completed. TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 1.031 9 Diagnosis upload
## Page 10

Description 2.2 Commanding the upload The Diagnosis upload function can be commanded by the following interfaces 1. PLC via Control unit [} 25] 2. HMI via Object access [} 23] 3. NC command [} 17] in the NC program ◦ a: Before processing, i.e. while the NC program is decoded ◦ b: Simultaneously with processing (during interpolation) Fig. 4: Interfaces for commanding the upload The upload process can be commanded in parallel via an interface. The individual commands are not sorted in a queue and processed one after the other. In other words, when a parallel task (multi-channel functionality, CNC objects, PLC) requests an upload, only the last upload request is considered. If necessary, each sequential upload must be synchronised at the application level with tasks running in parallel. A distinction is made between parameterising the upload (filename, volume, etc.) and the upload start (command). The parameters previously set are adopted at every upload start. 10 Version: 1.031 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Diagnosis upload
## Page 11

Description 2.2.1 Commanding via the PLC The PLC can control the upload start or trigger it itself via the control unit (CU) [} 25] on the PLC interface (HLI). To do this, the PLC must enable the control unit using the enable_w signal. HLI syntax for CNC Builds as of V2.11.20xx The explanations and graphics below are compiled for CNC Builds as of V2.11.28xx. The behaviour in CNC Builds up to V2.11.20xx is analogous except for the related HLI syntax. Starting point – control unit enabled Every request is forwarded to the HLI. The data item request_r is set to TRUE on the CU. It is then possible to determine in the PLC whether the upload process is started. A start requires setting command_w to TRUE. As soon as state_r reverts to FALSE, the PLC must set command_w to FALSE. This completes writing of the diagnosis data. TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 1.031 11 Diagnosis upload
## Page 12

Description Fig. 5: Upload signal profile with control unit enabled Starting point – control unit disabled Every request commands the upload process directly, provided no other upload is active. The request command comes either via the NC command or via the CNC object. 12 Version: 1.031 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Diagnosis upload
## Page 13

Description Fig. 6: Upload signal profile with control unit disabled TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 1.031 13 Diagnosis upload
## Page 14

Description 2.3 Parameterisation of an upload The Diagnosis upload function can be parameterised by the following interfaces: • NC command [} 17] • start-up parameters [} 21] • CNC objects [} 23] The following options are available for parameterisation: • one-off automatic upload after controller start-up • filename and file path • number of files to be saved • upload synchronicity • formatting • scaling the upload One-off automatic upload after controller start-up The parameter P-STUP-00113 [} 21] can be used to specify the once-off filename for the diagnosis upload after controller startup. If this parameter is unassigned, no upload takes place. Filename and file path The user may define the name of the output file and the path where the output file is to be saved. It is also possible to program a relative path both in the name of the output file and the path. The programmed path is then relative to the current work directory. Number of files to be saved By default, the written file is overwritten every time an upload is commanded. The number of diagnosis files to be saved in parallel is defined by the NC command, the startup parameter P-STUP-00114 [} 21] or using the CNC object. If the number <n> is specified, the last <n> files are saved and numbered automatically. Numbering starts with 0. The numbering syntax for the first element is <filename>_0.<file suffix>. An upload counter assigns the filename unambiguously to the corresponding upload using modulo calculation. Synchronicity with NC program execution The NC command #DIAGNOSIS defines whether execution takes place during decoding or synchronous with interpolation. In addition, a setting is provided to select whether NC program processing stops at the end of the upload (WAIT) or continues in parallel. Upload mode With regression tests on a machine, the same result is usually expected for all of the tests. The diagnosis data can be used to verify the state after each test. However, a comparison of two sets of diagnosis data generally shows many differences. This can be explained by the numerous time stamps in the diagnosis data. This makes it difficult to search for relevant differences between diagnosis files and to verify the test. For this reason, use Mode to select a different formatting that is more suitable for regression tests. By default, all messages sent to ISG_DIAG_BED via the #MSG command are read out at the start of the upload. This function can be disabled. 14 Version: 1.031 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Diagnosis upload
## Page 15

Description Scaling the upload The data volume can be defined by what is referred to as Topics that describe individual aspects of the CNC. By default, all data are output. Depending on a particular case, it may be preferable to query only a specific part of the diagnostic data in order to increase performance, i.e. shorten the length of the upload process. The topics (see Topic table [} 18]) can be parameterised using the #DIAGNOSIS [} 17] command, the startup parameter P-STUP-00115 [} 21] or using the CNC objects [} 23]. TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 1.031 15 Diagnosis upload
## Page 16

Description 2.4 Execute upload Start the upload by the PLC The PLC can start an upload with the current parameter settings via the [} 25] enabled control unit on the HLI. Fig. 7: Repeated start of an upload by the PLC with control unit enabled Abort the upload by the PLC The PLC has the option to abort a running upload process via the enabled control unit. The current upload is aborted by setting the data item command_w to FLASE on the control unit before the upload ends, The function will write the data of the current topic to the end. The remaining topics will not be loaded. Fig. 8: Abort a current upload by the PLC with control unit enabled 16 Version: 1.031 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Diagnosis upload
## Page 17

Programming 3 Programming Modality for this command refers to the complete runtime of the controller. The individual parameters can be edited using CNC objects. The last value written is valid. This value is retained in the following uploads. Syntax: #DIAGNOSIS [SYN] [WAIT] [UPLOAD=.. FILE =.. PATH =.. TOPICS =.. HISTORY_NBR =.. MODE =.. ] SYN The NC command is executed synchronously with the processing time in the interpolator. Without SYN, the upload is already executed at the time the program is decoded. WAIT The NC program is interrupted until the upload ends. Wait may take place synchronously (SYN) in the interpolator or at the time the program is decoded. UPLOAD=.. Command the upload (otherwise only new parameters are set): • TO_FILE (default) Output the diagnosis data to file. • TO_SCREEN Output the diagnosis data to screen. • TO_FILE | TO_SCREEN Output the diagnosis data to screen and to file. FILE=.. Name of the diagnosis data output file: If FILE is unassigned, the value in P-STUP-00112 [} 21] is used or the last value that was written by the CNC object diag_upload_file_w. When the output file is specified with an absolute path, the path specified in P- STUP-00111 [} 21] is ignored. PATH=.. Directory path for output file: If PATH is unassigned, the value in P-STUP-00111 [} 21] or the current path (default) is used. HISTORY_NBR=.. Number of diagnosis data output files to be saved. The numbering has a value range from 0 to HISTORY_NBR - 1. The numbering syntax of the file for the first element is <filename>_0.<file suffix>. HISTORY_NBR = 1 (default) means that every file is overwritten at the next upload. If HISTORY_NBR is unassigned, the value in P-STUP-00114 [} 21] or the default value 1 or the last value written by the CNC object diag_upload_history_nbr_w is used. MODE=.. Mode in the form of a string in order to modify each individual diagnosis upload. (as of Build See Mode table [} 18]. V2.11.2059) If no identifier is specified for the mode, the entry in P-STUP-00117 [} 21] is used. FORMAT=.. Permitted identifiers: STANDARD, REGRESSION and PROTOCOL_INFO (compatibility) Replaced by MODE TOPICS=.. Identifiers in the form of a string to specify each individual diagnosis upload. If no identifiers are specified, the identifiers in P-STUP-00115 [} 21] or all identifiers (default) or the last value written by the CNC object diag_upload_topics_w is used. For identifiers see the TOPICS table [} 18] below. TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 1.031 17 Diagnosis upload
## Page 18

Programming TOPICS table Identifier Meaning ALL All following data (default) MIN Minimum upload AX_DRVR Axes IPO Interpolation IPO_BLCK Interpolator function blocks LOG Logging the individual BFs of the CNC AX_MGR Axis management DEC Decoder PPREP Path preparation HLI PLC interface MAN manual mode SIG Signal/wait handshake COM Communication VARS External variables SAI Single-axis interpolation (spindle) SAI_BLCK SAI function blocks TRC Tool radius compensation ERR Error messages A deviation from the default TOPICS entry can make diagnosis more difficult in the event of support or errors. Diagnosis upload mode Meaning STANDARD Default upload with no further functions REGRESSION Formatting for regression test PROTOCOL_INFO Additional information about the upload procedure MSG_FLUSH_OFF Deactivate automatic flush for messages to ISG_DIAG_BED at the start of the diagnosis upload. 18 Version: 1.031 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Diagnosis upload
## Page 19

Programming Using the #DIAGNOSIS command N400 #DIAGNOSIS SYN WAIT [HISTORY_NBR=4] N401 #DIAGNOSIS WAIT [FILE=diag_data_syn_wait.txt] N402 #DIAGNOSIS SYN WAIT [TOPICS="IPO MAN DEC"] N403 #DIAGNOSIS SYN WAIT [UPLOAD] N404 #DIAGNOSIS SYN [UPLOAD PATH =D:\] N405 #DIAGNOSIS SYN WAIT [UPLOAD=TO_FILE|TO_SCREEN TOPICS=DEC+IPO FILE=diag_data_syn.txt] N406 #DIAGNOSIS [MODE = REGRESSION HISTORY_NBR = 5] N407 #DIAGNOSIS WAIT [UPLOAD] N408 #DIAGNOSIS [MODE = STANDARD+REGRESSION+PROTOCOL_INFO] N409 #DIAGNOSIS WAIT [UPLOAD=TO_SCREEN MODE = STANDARD TOPICS=" IPO MAN DEC "] N410 #DIAGNOSIS SYN WAIT [UPLOAD=TO_FILE MODE = STANDARD|PROTOCOL_INFO|MSG_FLUSH_OFF TOPICS=DEC|IPO] The contents of the next 4 lines are identical N411 #DIAGNOSIS WAIT [TOPICS="IPO MAN DEC"] N412 #DIAGNOSIS WAIT [TOPICS= IPO+MAN+DEC] N413 #DIAGNOSIS WAIT [TOPICS="IPO,MAN,DEC"] N414 #DIAGNOSIS WAIT [TOPICS= IPO|MAN|DEC"] When TOPICS, MODE and UPLOAD are programmed using | and +, there must be no blanks between the identifiers. ;N415 #DIAGNOSIS WAIT [TOPICS=IPO| MAN|DEC] -> Error 22150 ;N416 #DIAGNOSIS WAIT [TOPICS=IPO+ MAN+DEC] -> Error 20392 ( naming output files ) N430 #DIAGNOSIS WAIT [FILE=diag_out.txt HISTORY_NBR=3] N431 #DIAGNOSIS SYN WAIT [UPLOAD] N432 #DIAGNOSIS SYN WAIT [UPLOAD] N433 #DIAGNOSIS SYN WAIT [UPLOAD] The names of the 3 files created are: • diag_out_0.txt • diag_out_1.txt • diag_out_2.txt TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 1.031 19 Diagnosis upload
## Page 20

Parameter 4 Parameter 4.1 Overview start-up parameters ID Parameter Description P-STUP-00111 configuration.diagnosis File path for upload file of the diagnosis data _upload.path P-STUP-00112 configuration.diagnosis Name of the upload file of the diagnosis data _upload.default_file P-STUP-00113 configuration.diagnosis File name for one-off diagnosis upload after controller start-up _upload.startup_file P-STUP-00114 configuration.diagnosis Number of diagnosis data output files to be saved _upload.history_nbr P-STUP-00115 configuration.diagnosis Identifier to specify the diagnosis upload _upload.topics P-STUP-00117 configuration.diagnosis Diagnosis upload mode _upload.mode CNC objects Fig. 9: CNC objects in the Object Browser 20 Version: 1.031 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Diagnosis upload
## Page 21

Parameter 4.2 Start-up parameters P-STUP-00111 File path for diagnosis upload Description This parameter defines the file path for writing the diagnosis data upload file. Parameter configuration.diagnosis_upload.path Data type STRING Dimension --- Default value Standard CNC programme path, can be set via system manager -> CNC Remarks P-STUP-00112 Filename for diagnosis upload Description This parameter specifies the filename of the diagnosis data upload file. The file path is defined by P-STUP-00111 [} 21] . Parameter configuration.diagnosis_upload.default_file Data type STRING Dimension --- Default value diag_data.txt Remarks P-STUP-00113 Name of the upload file of the diagnosis data at start-up Description This parameter specifies the name of the diagnosis data upload file at start-up. The file path is defined by P-STUP-00111 [} 21] . Parameter configuration.diagnosis_upload.startup_file Data type STRING Dimension --- Default value Remarks Note: If P-STUP-00113 is unassigned, no diagnosis upload can be commanded at start-up. P-STUP-00114 Number of diagnosis data output files to be saved Description This parameter defines the number of diagnosis data output files to be saved. The file path is defined by P-STUP-00111 [} 21] . Parameter configuration.diagnosis_upload.history_nbr Data type UNS16 Dimension ---- Default value 1 Remarks P-STUP-00115 Identifier to specify the diagnosis upload Description This parameter defines the identifiers to specify the diagnosis upload. For an overview of possible identifiers, see TOPICS table [} 18]. Parameter configuration.diagnosis_upload.topics Data type STRING Dimension ---- Default value MAX Remarks P-STUP-00117 Diagnosis upload mode Description This parameter defines the mode for a diagnosis upload. TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 1.031 21 Diagnosis upload
## Page 22

Parameter For an overview of the possible settings, see the Mode Table Parameter configuration.diagnosis_upload.mode Data type STRING Dimension --- Default value STANDARD Remarks Parameter available as of CNC Build V2.11.2059, V2.11.2830, V3.1.3079.43 or V3.1.3107.33. Diagnosis upload mode Meaning STANDARD Default upload with no further functions REGRESSION Formatting for regression test PROTOCOL_INFO Additional information about the upload procedure MSG_FLUSH_OFF Deactivate automatic flush for messages to ISG_DIAG_BED at the start of the diagnosis upload. 22 Version: 1.031 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Diagnosis upload
## Page 23

Parameter 4.3 CNC objects Name diag_upload_state_r Description This object reads the state of the upload. 1 : upload active 0: upload inactive Task COM (Port 553) Index group 0x120100 Index offset 0x2A6 Data type BOOLEAN Length/byte 1 Attributes read Unit - Remarks Name diag_upload_counter_r Description This object is used by the counter to read the number of times an upload was commanded. This is a continuous counter. The counter is reset at: • controller start-up • At the start of an upload when the entry HISTORY_NBR or the name of the output file was changed since the last upload. The counter is not reset at reset. Task COM (Port 553) Index group 0x120100 Index offset 0x2A7 Data type UNS32 Length/byte 4 Attributes read Unit - Remarks Name diag_upload_file_r Description This object reads the name of the diagnosis data output file. Task COM (Port 553) Index group 0x120100 Index offset 0x2A8 Data type STRING Length/byte 256 Attributes read Unit - Remarks Name diag_upload_topics_r Description This object reads strings that specify the upload. The individual topics are separated by a comma. Task COM (Port 553) Index group 0x120100 Index offset 0x2A9 Data type STRING Length/byte 256 Attributes read Unit - Remarks Name diag_upload_history_nbr_r Description This object reads the number of output files to be saved. Task COM (Port 553) Index group 0x120100 Index offset 0x2AA Data type UNS16 Length/byte 2 Attributes read Unit - TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 1.031 23 Diagnosis upload
## Page 24

Parameter Remarks Name diag_upload_request_w Description This object triggers the upload. 1 : Trigger activated 0 : Trigger not activated Task COM (Port 553) Index group 0x120100 Index offset 0x2AB Data type BOOLEAN Length/byte 1 Attributes write Unit - Remarks Name diag_upload_file_w Description This object writes the name of the diagnosis data output file. Task COM (Port 553) Index group 0x120100 Index offset 0x2AC Data type STRING Length/byte 256 Attributes write Unit - Remarks Name diag_upload_topics_w Description This object defines strings to specify the upload. Separate the individual topics by a comma. See TOPICS table [} 18]. Task COM (Port 553) Index group 0x120100 Index offset 0x2AD Data type STRING Length/byte 256 Attributes write Unit - Remarks Example: COM, IPO You can restore the default case including all diagnostic settings using the keyword ALL A complete diagnostic file (ALL) is required to investigate an error. Name diag_upload_history_nbr_w Description This object defines the number of output files to be saved. Task COM (Port 553) Index group 0x120100 Index offset 0x2AE Data type UNS16 Length/byte 2 Attributes write Unit - Remarks 24 Version: 1.031 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Diagnosis upload
## Page 25

Parameter 4.4 PLC parameters Diagnosis upload Description While the CNC is running, the PLC can command an upload of diagnosis data using this control unit. The control unit is enabled by enable_w = TRUE. Data type MC_CONTROL_BOOL_UNIT, see description of Control unit Access PLC reads request_r + state_r and writes command_w + enable_w ST path gp Pform^.diagnosis_upload Commanded, requested and return values ST element .command_w .request_r .state_r Data type BOOL Value range [TRUE = diagnosis upload activated, FALSE = diagnosis upload off] Redirection ST element .enable_w Special feature Note: The data item command_w must remain at TRUE until state_r reverts to FALSE. Otherwise, the data is not complete since the diagnosis data upload is aborted. Diagnosis upload state Description State value for a diagnosis upload. If the diagnosis file cannot be opened, state 2 is retained and is reset in the next successful diagnosis upload. For more information on diagnosis upload, see Diagnose-Upload [FCT-M9// Diagnosis upload [} 6]] ST path gp Pform^.diagnosis_upload_state Data type UDINT Value range Value Constant 0 HLI_DIAG_STATE_IDLE: Basic state, diagnosis upload not active 1 HLI_DIAG_STATE_ACTIVE: Diagnosis upload active 2 HLI_DIAG_STATE_FILE_ERROR: File cannot be opened 3 HLI_DIAG_STATE_WAIT_END_ACK: Wait for acknowledgement of the diagnosis upload from the PLC Access PLC is reading Note Available as of CNC Builds V2.11.2844, V3.1.3081.4 or V3.1.3110. 4.5 PLC parameter up to CNC Build V2.20xx Diagnosis upload Description While the CNC is running, the PLC can command an upload of diagnosis data using this control unit. The control unit is enabled by X_Enable = TRUE. Data type MCControl Bool Unit, see description of Control Unit Data type MCControl Bool Unit Access PLC reads Request + State and writes Command + Enable ST Path p MC[channel_idx]^.addr^. MCControl Bahn_Data. MCControl Bool Unit_Diagnosis Upload TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 1.031 25 Diagnosis upload
## Page 26

Parameter Commanded, requested and return values ST element . X_Command . X_Request . X_State Data type BOOL Value range [TRUE = diagnosis upload activated, FALSE = diagnosis upload off] Redirection ST element . X_Enable Special feature Note: The data item X_Command must remain at TRUE until X_State reverts to FALSE. Otherwise, the data is not complete since the diagnosis data upload is aborted. 26 Version: 1.031 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Diagnosis upload
## Page 27

Support and Service 5 Support and Service Beckhoff and their partners around the world offer comprehensive support and service, making available fast and competent assistance with all questions related to Beckhoff products and system solutions. Download finder Our download finder contains all the files that we offer you for downloading. You will find application reports, technical documentation, technical drawings, configuration files and much more. The downloads are available in various formats. Beckhoff's branch offices and representatives Please contact your Beckhoff branch office or representative for local support and service on Beckhoff products! The addresses of Beckhoff's branch offices and representatives round the world can be found on our internet page: www.beckhoff.com You will also find further documentation for Beckhoff components there. Beckhoff Support Support offers you comprehensive technical assistance, helping you not only with the application of individual Beckhoff products, but also with other, wide-ranging services: • support • design, programming and commissioning of complex automation systems • and extensive training program for Beckhoff system components Hotline: +49 5246 963-157 e-mail: support@beckhoff.com Beckhoff Service The Beckhoff Service Center supports you in all matters of after-sales service: • on-site service • repair service • spare parts service • hotline service Hotline: +49 5246 963-460 e-mail: service@beckhoff.com Beckhoff Headquarters Beckhoff Automation Gmb H & Co. KG Huelshorstweg 20 33415 Verl Germany Phone: +49 5246 963-0 e-mail: info@beckhoff.com web: www.beckhoff.com TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 1.031 27 Diagnosis upload
## Page 28

Index Index D diagnosis upload 25 Diagnosis upload state 25 P P-STUP-00111 21 P-STUP-00112 21 P-STUP-00113 21 P-STUP-00114 21 P-STUP-00115 21 P-STUP-00117 21 U upload diagnosis 25 28 Version: 1.031 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Diagnosis upload
## Page 30

More Information: www.beckhoff.com/TF5200 Beckhoff Automation Gmb H & Co. KG Hülshorstweg 20 33415 Verl Germany Phone: +49 5246 9630 info@beckhoff.com www.beckhoff.com
