---
title: "TF5200"
product: "TF5200"
category: "Motion_Control"
tags: ["NC"]
language: "EN"
document_type: "Manual"
version: "1.15"
source_pdf: "https://download.beckhoff.com/download/Document/automation/twincat3/TF5200_volumetric_comp_params_en.pdf"
release_date: "2025-06-05"
---
Manual | EN TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Volumetric compensation parameters 6/5/2025 | Version: 1.15
## Page 3

Notes on the documentation Notes on the documentation This description is only intended for the use of trained specialists in control and automation engineering who are familiar with the applicable national standards. It is essential that the documentation and the following notes and explanations are followed when installing and commissioning the components. It is the duty of the technical personnel to use the documentation published at the respective time of each installation and commissioning. The responsible staff must ensure that the application or use of the products described satisfy all the requirements for safety, including all the relevant laws, regulations, guidelines and standards. Disclaimer The documentation has been prepared with care. The products described are, however, constantly under development. We reserve the right to revise and change the documentation at any time and without prior announcement. No claims for the modification of products that have already been supplied may be made on the basis of the data, diagrams and descriptions in this documentation. Trademarks Beckhoff®, Twin CAT®, Twin CAT/BSD®, TC/BSD®, Ether CAT®, Ether CAT G®, Ether CAT G10®, Ether CAT P®, Safety over Ether CAT®, Twin SAFE®, XFC®, XTS® and XPlanar® are registered trademarks of and licensed by Beckhoff Automation Gmb H. Other designations used in this publication may be trademarks whose use by third parties for their own purposes could violate the rights of the owners. Patent Pending The Ether CAT technology is patent protected, in particular by the following applications and patents: EP1590927, EP1789857, EP1456722, EP2137893, DE102015105702 with corresponding applications or registrations in various other countries. Ether CAT® is registered trademark and patented technology, licensed by Beckhoff Automation Gmb H, Germany Copyright © Beckhoff Automation Gmb H & Co. KG, Germany. The reproduction, distribution and utilisation of this document as well as the communication of its contents to others without express authorisation are prohibited. Offenders will be held liable for the payment of damages. All rights reserved in the event of the grant of a patent, utility model or design. TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 1.15 3 Volumetric compensation parameters
## Page 4

General and safety instructions General and safety instructions Icons used and their meanings This documentation uses the following icons next to the safety instruction and the associated text. Please read the (safety) instructions carefully and comply with them at all times. Icons in explanatory text 1. Indicates an action. ð Indicates an action statement. DANGER Acute danger to life! If you fail to comply with the safety instruction next to this icon, there is immediate danger to human life and health. CAUTION Personal injury and damage to machines! If you fail to comply with the safety instruction next to this icon, it may result in personal injury or damage to machines. NOTICE Restriction or error This icon describes restrictions or warns of errors. Tips and other notes This icon indicates information to assist in general understanding or to provide additional informa- tion. General example Example that clarifies the text. NC programming example Programming example (complete NC program or program sequence) of the described function or NC com- mand. Specific version information Optional or restricted function. The availability of this function depends on the configuration and the scope of the version. 4 Version: 1.15 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Volumetric compensation parameters
## Page 5

Table of contents Table of contents Notes on the documentation.................................................................................................................... 3 General and safety instructions.............................................................................................................. 4 Overview of compensation parameters.................................................................................................. 8 1 General description.................................................................................................................................. 9 1.1 Links to other documents.................................................................................................................. 9 1.2 Structure and classification of configuration data.............................................................................. 9 1.3 Syntax and interpretation of ASCII list file......................................................................................... 9 1.4 Comments in the ASCII list file........................................................................................................ 11 2 Description of elements......................................................................................................................... 12 2.1 Logical axis numbers of the participating axes (P-VOLC-00001 to P-VOLC-00006)...................... 12 2.2 Type of kinematic chain (P-VOLC-00007)...................................................................................... 14 2.3 Number of workpiece axes (P-VOLC-00008).................................................................................. 14 2.4 Negating compensation values (P-VOLC-00009)........................................................................... 14 2.5 Setting compensation values to zero (P-VOLC-00010).................................................................. 14 2.6 Alternative calculation rule (P-VOLC-00011).................................................................................. 15 2.7 Paths and names of parameter files (P-VOLC-00012)................................................................... 15 2.8 Parameter file formats (P-VOLC-00013)......................................................................................... 15 2.9 Interpolation method for error parameters (P-VOLC-00014).......................................................... 16 2.10 Adaptation of error parameters (P-VOLC-00015)........................................................................... 16 2.11 Manual activation (P-VOLC-00017)................................................................................................ 16 2.12 Filter size (P-VOLC-00018)............................................................................................................. 17 2.13 Associate compensation to channel (P-VOLC-00019).................................................................... 17 2.14 Consider axis offsets (P-VOLC-00020)........................................................................................... 17 3 Support and Service............................................................................................................................... 19 Index......................................................................................................................................................... 20 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 5 Volumetric compensation parameters
## Page 6

Table of contents 6 Version: TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Volumetric compensation parameters
## Page 7

List of figures List of figures TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 1.15 7 Volumetric compensation parameters
## Page 8

Overview of compensation parameters Overview of compensation parameters The overview of compensation parameters is sorted into a 4-column table. • Column 1 contains the unambiguous identifier of the axis parameter called the “ID”. which consists of the prefix “P-VOLC” and a unique 5-digit number, e.g. P-VOLC-00001. • Column 2 represents the data structure which defines the parameter The structure is a categorisation aid and is described in the following section (irrelevant for compensation parameters). If an entry is missing in ‘structure’, this is not an error. The parameter in column 3 “parameter” is then only valid on its own. • Column 3 contains the “parameter” with its exact description, e.g. x • Column 4 contains the “functionality” in a summarised term/short description e.g. Logical axis number of the participating X axis ID Structure Parameter Functionality/short description P-VOLC-00001 [} 12] x Logical axis number of the participating X axis P-VOLC-00002 [} 12] y Logical axis number of the participating Y axis P-VOLC-00003 [} 12] z Logical axis number of the participating Z axis P-VOLC-00004 [} 12] a Logical axis number of the participating A axis P-VOLC-00005 [} 13] b Logical axis number of the participating B axis P-VOLC-00006 [} 13] c Logical axis number of the participating C axis P-VOLC-00007 [} 14] Chain Type of kinematic chain P-VOLC-00008 [} 14] workpiece_axes Number of workpiece axes P-VOLC-00009 [} 14] negate Negate compensation values P-VOLC-00010 [} 14] set_to_zero Setting the compensation values to zero P-VOLC-00011 [} 15] alternative_model Alternative calculation rule P-VOLC-00012 [} 15] file[j] Paths and names of parameter files P-VOLC-00013 [} 15] file_format[j] Parameter file formats P-VOLC-00014 [} 16] interpolation Interpolation method for error parameters P-VOLC-00015 [} 16] enable_splicing Adaptation of error parameters P-VOLC-00016 diagnosis_file Path to the diagnosis file P-VOLC-00017 [} 16] manual_activation Manual activation P-VOLC-00018 [} 17] filter_steps Number of steps in the compensation value list. P-VOLC-00019 [} 17] associate_to_channe Associate compensation to channel l P-VOLC-00020 [} 17] use_axis_offsets Consider axis offsets 8 Version: 1.15 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Volumetric compensation parameters
## Page 9

General description 1 General description 1.1 Links to other documents For the sake of clarity, links to other documents and parameters are abbreviated, e.g. [PROG] for the Programming Manual or P-AXIS-00001 for an axis parameter. For technical reasons these links only function in the Online Help (HTML5, CHM) but not in pdf files since pdfs do not support cross-linking. 1.2 Structure and classification of configuration data A maximum of 5 volumetric compensations can be configured on the controller. Configuration of the ith volumetric compensation is split between a startup list and the list file: • 2 parameters are listed in the controller startup list ('hochlauf.lis'): 1. The parameter "vol_comp[i].max_records" (P-STUP-00100) specifies an upper limit for the expected error parameter blocks. 2. The parameter "vol_comp[i].file_name" (P-STUP-00101) refers to the list file in which the related volumetric compensation is configured as detailed below. This means that there are maximum 5 list files containing the assigned configuration data. • The file which is named in the start-up parameter "vol_comp[i].file_name" (P-STUP-00101) contains all the configuration data for the ith volumetric compensation with the exception of “max_records”. These parameters are explained in this documentation. 1.3 Syntax and interpretation of ASCII list file An interpreter copies the entries in the ASCII list file into identical internal structures which are then checked for plausibility. To ensure reliable controller start-up every time, any defective entries found by the plausibility check are replaced by default values. Unknown entries are not taken over. These irregularities are displayed by warning messages. We advise you to investigate the cause for these warning messages and remove defective entries from the ASCII list file. The following agreement applies to BOOLEAN data: Value Meaning 0 Definition of FALSE 1 Definition of TRUE The following agreement applies to STRING data: If a character string containing characters with a special meaning in ASCII lists (e.g. comment characters, spaces [} 11]) is assigned to a STRING type list parameter, this character string must be defined in inverted commas ″..″ (available as of V3.1.3081.0, V3.1.3108.0). example[0].name ″STRING_WITH_COMMENT( # /*)_CHARACTERS″ Trailing spaces are discarded on import. The entry.. example[0].name ″STRING_WITH_POST_SPACES ″ ..has the same meaning as TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 1.15 9 Volumetric compensation parameters
## Page 10

General description example[0].name ″STRING_WITH_POST_SPACES″ If the character string only contains characters without any special meaning, no inverted commas are required. example[0].name STRING_WITH_STANDARD_CHARACTERS! 10 Version: 1.15 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Volumetric compensation parameters
## Page 11

General description 1.4 Comments in the ASCII list file Comments can be in an entire line or can be added at the end of a line. With a comment spanning an entire line, the comment character "'#" must be placed at the start of the line and followed by a blank. If a comment is to be inserted at the end of a line, only a blank is required before the comment. Blank lines are also possible. Comments in the ASCII list file # ************************************************************************ # Data # ************************************************************************ # # List comments after numerical values dummy[1] 1 Comment dummy[2] 1 # Comment dummy[3] 1 ( Comment dummy[4] 1 /* Comment ... ... However, if a character string was assigned to the list parameter as a value in the line, any following comment must be opened by a bracket '('. The comment characters space, # and /* are not permitted. If a '(' itself is part of the character string, the character string must be defined in inverted commas ″..″ (available as of V3.1.3081.0, V3.1.3108.0). # List comments after strings beispiel[0].bezeichnung STRING_1 (comment requires a '(‘ bracket!) beispiel[1].bezeichnung″ STRING_(2)″ (comment requires a '(‘ bracket!) TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 1.15 11 Volumetric compensation parameters
## Page 12

Description of elements 2 Description of elements 2.1 Logical axis numbers of the participating axes (P- VOLC-00001 to P-VOLC-00006) P-VOLC-00001 Logical axis number of the participating X axis Description This parameter defines the X axis participating in this Volumetric Compensation. The axis is identified by its logical axis number. Parameter x Data type UNS16 Data range 0 … MAX(UNS16) Dimension ---- Default value - Remarks Parameterisation example: The row x 1 defines that the axis with the logical axis number 1 is to be interpreted as the X axis (as specified in the ISO 230 model). P-VOLC-00002 Logical axis number of the participating Y axis Description This parameter defines the Y axis participating in this Volumetric Compensation. The axis is identified by its logical axis number. Parameter y Data type UNS16 Data range 0 … MAX(UNS16) Dimension ---- Default value - Remarks Parameterisation example: The row y 2 defines that the axis with the logical axis number 2 is to be interpreted as the Y axis (as specified in the ISO 230 model). P-VOLC-00003 Logical axis number of the participating Z axis Description This parameter defines the Z axis participating in this Volumetric Compensation. The axis is identified by its logical axis number. Parameter z Data type UNS16 Data range 0 … MAX(UNS16) Dimension ---- Default value - Remarks Parameterisation example: The row z 3 defines that the axis with the logical axis number 3 is to be interpreted as the Z axis (as specified in the ISO 230 model). P-VOLC-00004 Logical axis number of the participating A axis Description This parameter defines the A axis participating in this Volumetric Compensation. The axis is identified by its logical axis number. Parameter a Data type UNS16 12 Version: 1.15 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Volumetric compensation parameters
## Page 13

Description of elements Data range 0 … MAX(UNS16) Dimension ---- Default value - Remarks Parameterisation example: The row a 4 defines that the axis with the logical axis number 4 is to be interpreted as the A axis (as specified in the ISO 230 model). P-VOLC-00005 Logical axis number of the participating B axis Description This parameter defines the B axis participating in this Volumetric Compensation. The axis is identified by its logical axis number. Parameter b Data type UNS16 Data range 0 … MAX(UNS16) Dimension ---- Default value - Remarks Parameterisation example: The row b 5 defines that the axis with the logical axis number 5 is to be interpreted as the B axis (as specified in the ISO 230 model). P-VOLC-00006 Logical axis number of the participating C axis Description This parameter defines the C axis participating in this Volumetric Compensation. The axis is identified by its logical axis number. Parameter c Data type UNS16 Data range 0 … MAX(UNS16) Dimension ---- Default value - Remarks Parameterisation example: The row c 6 defines that the axis with the logical axis number 6 is to be interpreted as the C axis (as specified in the ISO 230 model). TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 1.15 13 Volumetric compensation parameters
## Page 14

Description of elements 2.2 Type of kinematic chain (P-VOLC-00007) P-VOLC-00007 Type of kinematic chain Description This parameter specifies the kinematic chain to be used. For details of how to define the kinematic chain, see [FCT-C26]. The 6 axes available X, Y, Z, A, B and C can be used in any order. Parameter chain Data type STRING Data range <Order of axis names in the chain> Dimension ---- Default value XYZ Remarks Parameterisation example: The row chain XYZCA defines the kinematic chain for a conventional CA machine. 2.3 Number of workpiece axes (P-VOLC-00008) P-VOLC-00008 Number of workpiece axes Description This parameter specifies how many axes in the kinematic chain lie on the workpiece side. Use of this parameter depends on the measurement strategy. See [FCT-C26]. Parameter workpiece_axes Data type UNS16 Data range 0 ≤ workpiece_axes < 6* Dimension ---- Default value 0 Remarks * Volumetric compensation is possible for maximum 6 axes 2.4 Negating compensation values (P-VOLC-00009) P-VOLC-00009 Negate compensation values Description This parameter specifies the Cartesian axes for which the compensation value is to be negated. See [FCT-C26]. A notation based on sets is used. For example, the value "XY" means that the compensation values for X and Y are to be negated, but not for Z. Parameter negate Data type STRING Data range <Name of the axes to be negated> Dimension ---- Default value - Remarks Parameterisation example: The row negate XY specifies that the compensation values are to be negated for the X axis and Y axis. 2.5 Setting compensation values to zero (P-VOLC-00010) P-VOLC-00010 Setting the compensation values to zero Description This parameter specifies the Cartesian axes in which the compensation value is to be zeroed. See [FCT-C26]. A notation based on sets is used. Parameter set_to_zero Data type STRING 14 Version: 1.15 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Volumetric compensation parameters
## Page 15

Description of elements Data range <Names of the axes to be zeroed> Dimension ---- Default value - Remarks Parameterisation example: The row set_to_zero Z specifies that the compensation value are to be zeroed for the Z axis. 2.6 Alternative calculation rule (P-VOLC-00011) P-VOLC-00011 Alternative calculation rule Description This parameter enables use of an alternative calculation rule for the ISO 230 error model. Use of this parameter depends on the interpretation of the measurement strategy which is possibly used. See [FCT-C26]. Parameter alternative_model Data type BOOLEAN Data range 0/1 Dimension ---- Default value 0 Remarks 2.7 Paths and names of parameter files (P-VOLC-00012) P-VOLC-00012 Paths and names of parameter files Description This parameter contains the paths and names of the error parameter files which are read in for the Volumetric Compensation The corresponding parameter P- VOLC-00013 [} 15] (file_format[j]) should be configured for every entry in file[j]. Parameter file[j] where 0 ≤ j < 10 (application-specific) Data type STRING Data range <Paths and names of parameter files> Dimension ---- Default value - Remarks Parameterisation example: The rows file[0] C:\volcomp\vc_001.csv file[1] C:\volcomp\vc_002.csv specify the error parameters from which the two specified CVS files should be read. 2.8 Parameter file formats (P-VOLC-00013) P-VOLC-00013 Parameter file formats Description This parameter defines the formats of the error parameter files P-VOLC-00012 [} 15] (file[j]). An incorrect file format setting results in a syntax error when the file is read in. Parameter file_format[j] where 0 ≤ j < 10 (application-specific) Data type STRING Data range {ISG_CSV, ETALON_EXCHANGE} Dimension ---- Default value ISG_CSV TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 1.15 15 Volumetric compensation parameters
## Page 16

Description of elements Remarks Parameterisation example: The rows file[0] C:\volcomp\vc_001.csv file_format[0] ISG_CSV file[1] C:\volcomp\vc_002.exc file_format[1] ETALON_EXCHANGE specify that an error parameter file is to be read in in CVS format and a file in Etalon Exchange Format. 2.9 Interpolation method for error parameters (P- VOLC-00014) P-VOLC-00014 Interpolation method for error parameters Description This parameter specifies the interpolation method to be used for the error parameters. See [FCT-C26]. Parameter interpolation Data type STRING Data range GRID: The data is given on a grid, linear interpolation. An error is issued if the GRID mode is configured, but the data in the parameter files is not given on a grid. SCATTER: The data is specified irregularly by means of Shepard interpolation. AUTO: If the data is specified on a grid, linear interpolation is used. If not, Shepard interpolation is applied. PATH: Error parameters are specified at the corner points of a polygon. Interpolation takes place in linear sections along the polygon. PATH_XY: Error parameters are specified at the corner points of a polygon in the XY plane. Dimension ---- Default value GRID Remarks 2.10 Adaptation of error parameters (P-VOLC-00015) P-VOLC-00015 Adaptation of error parameters Description This parameter specifies whether error parameters are to be adjusted for rotary axes to avoid jumps in the compensation values in the event of modulo passages (e.g. 360°). See [FCT-C26]. Parameter enable_splicing Data type BOOLEAN Data range 0/1 Dimension ---- Default value 0 Remarks 2.11 Manual activation (P-VOLC-00017) P-VOLC-00017 Manual activation 16 Version: 1.15 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Volumetric compensation parameters
## Page 17

Description of elements Description By default, Volumetric Compensation is automatically enabled on start-up or reset as soon as the participating axes meet all the necessary conditions. See [FCT-C26]. This parameter can prevent this automated feature. In this case, Volumetric Compensation can only be enabled by the NC command #VOLCOMP ON / OFF. Parameter manual_activation Data type BOOLEAN Data range 0: Volumetric Compensation is enabled either automatically on start-up or reset or manually, i.e. with #VOLCOMP ON/OFF. 1: Volumetric Compensation can be enabled only manually, i.e. with #VOLCOMP ON/OFF. Unit ---- Default value 0 Remarks 2.12 Filter size (P-VOLC-00018) P-VOLC-00018 Number of steps in the compensation value list. Description If compensation with axis motion is enabled or disabled (NOT via position controller setpoint correction), the correction value is built up and reduced by a filer to move the axis with jerk limiting. This parameter defines the number of steps/cycles. Parameter filter_steps Data type UNS32 Data range 0 … MAX(UNS32) Dimension ---- Default value 20 Remarks 2.13 Associate compensation to channel (P-VOLC-00019) P-VOLC-00019 Associate compensation to channel Description This parameter specifies whether compensation is to be linked to the channel in which it was enabled. This flag impacts on the behaviour of the compensation at the end of the program, among other things. See [FCT-C26]. Parameter associate_to_channel Data type BOOLEAN Data range 0/1 Dimension ---- Default value 0 Remarks 2.14 Consider axis offsets (P-VOLC-00020) P-VOLC-00020 Consider axis offsets Description This parameter specifies whether compensation should consider axis offsets when the correction values are defined. Parameter use_axis_offsets Data type BOOLEAN Data range 0/1 Dimension ---- Default value 0 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 1.15 17 Volumetric compensation parameters
## Page 18

Description of elements Remarks 18 Version: 1.15 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Volumetric compensation parameters
## Page 19

Support and Service 3 Support and Service Beckhoff and their partners around the world offer comprehensive support and service, making available fast and competent assistance with all questions related to Beckhoff products and system solutions. Download finder Our download finder contains all the files that we offer you for downloading. You will find application reports, technical documentation, technical drawings, configuration files and much more. The downloads are available in various formats. Beckhoff's branch offices and representatives Please contact your Beckhoff branch office or representative for local support and service on Beckhoff products! The addresses of Beckhoff's branch offices and representatives round the world can be found on our internet page: www.beckhoff.com You will also find further documentation for Beckhoff components there. Beckhoff Support Support offers you comprehensive technical assistance, helping you not only with the application of individual Beckhoff products, but also with other, wide-ranging services: • support • design, programming and commissioning of complex automation systems • and extensive training program for Beckhoff system components Hotline: +49 5246 963-157 e-mail: support@beckhoff.com Beckhoff Service The Beckhoff Service Center supports you in all matters of after-sales service: • on-site service • repair service • spare parts service • hotline service Hotline: +49 5246 963-460 e-mail: service@beckhoff.com Beckhoff Headquarters Beckhoff Automation Gmb H & Co. KG Huelshorstweg 20 33415 Verl Germany Phone: +49 5246 963-0 e-mail: info@beckhoff.com web: www.beckhoff.com TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 1.15 19 Volumetric compensation parameters
## Page 20

Index Index P P-VOLC-00001 12 P-VOLC-00002 12 P-VOLC-00003 12 P-VOLC-00004 12 P-VOLC-00005 13 P-VOLC-00006 13 P-VOLC-00007 14 P-VOLC-00008 14 P-VOLC-00009 14 P-VOLC-00010 14 P-VOLC-00011 15 P-VOLC-00012 15 P-VOLC-00013 15 P-VOLC-00014 16 P-VOLC-00015 16 P-VOLC-00017 16 P-VOLC-00018 17 P-VOLC-00019 17 P-VOLC-00020 17 20 Version: 1.15 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Volumetric compensation parameters
## Page 22

More Information: www.beckhoff.com/TF5200 Beckhoff Automation Gmb H & Co. KG Hülshorstweg 20 33415 Verl Germany Phone: +49 5246 9630 info@beckhoff.com www.beckhoff.com
