---
title: "TF5200_jog_of_path_en"
product: "TF5200"
category: "Motion_Control"
tags: ["NC"]
language: "EN"
document_type: "Manual"
version: "1.17"
source_pdf: "https://download.beckhoff.com/download/Document/automation/twincat3/TF5200_jog_of_path_en.pdf"
release_date: "2025-06-10"
---
Functional description | EN TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Jog of path 6/10/2025 | Version: 1.17
## Page 3

Notes on the documentation Notes on the documentation This description is only intended for the use of trained specialists in control and automation engineering who are familiar with the applicable national standards. It is essential that the documentation and the following notes and explanations are followed when installing and commissioning the components. It is the duty of the technical personnel to use the documentation published at the respective time of each installation and commissioning. The responsible staff must ensure that the application or use of the products described satisfy all the requirements for safety, including all the relevant laws, regulations, guidelines and standards. Disclaimer The documentation has been prepared with care. The products described are, however, constantly under development. We reserve the right to revise and change the documentation at any time and without prior announcement. No claims for the modification of products that have already been supplied may be made on the basis of the data, diagrams and descriptions in this documentation. Trademarks Beckhoff®, Twin CAT®, Twin CAT/BSD®, TC/BSD®, Ether CAT®, Ether CAT G®, Ether CAT G10®, Ether CAT P®, Safety over Ether CAT®, Twin SAFE®, XFC®, XTS® and XPlanar® are registered trademarks of and licensed by Beckhoff Automation Gmb H. Other designations used in this publication may be trademarks whose use by third parties for their own purposes could violate the rights of the owners. Patent Pending The Ether CAT technology is patent protected, in particular by the following applications and patents: EP1590927, EP1789857, EP1456722, EP2137893, DE102015105702 with corresponding applications or registrations in various other countries. Ether CAT® is registered trademark and patented technology, licensed by Beckhoff Automation Gmb H, Germany Copyright © Beckhoff Automation Gmb H & Co. KG, Germany. The reproduction, distribution and utilisation of this document as well as the communication of its contents to others without express authorisation are prohibited. Offenders will be held liable for the payment of damages. All rights reserved in the event of the grant of a patent, utility model or design. TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 1.17 3 Jog of path
## Page 4

General and safety instructions General and safety instructions Icons used and their meanings This documentation uses the following icons next to the safety instruction and the associated text. Please read the (safety) instructions carefully and comply with them at all times. Icons in explanatory text 1. Indicates an action. ð Indicates an action statement. DANGER Acute danger to life! If you fail to comply with the safety instruction next to this icon, there is immediate danger to human life and health. CAUTION Personal injury and damage to machines! If you fail to comply with the safety instruction next to this icon, it may result in personal injury or damage to machines. NOTICE Restriction or error This icon describes restrictions or warns of errors. Tips and other notes This icon indicates information to assist in general understanding or to provide additional informa- tion. General example Example that clarifies the text. NC programming example Programming example (complete NC program or program sequence) of the described function or NC com- mand. Specific version information Optional or restricted function. The availability of this function depends on the configuration and the scope of the version. 4 Version: 1.17 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Jog of path
## Page 5

Table of contents Table of contents Notes on the documentation.................................................................................................................... 3 General and safety instructions.............................................................................................................. 4 1 Overview.................................................................................................................................................... 8 2 Description................................................................................................................................................ 9 2.1 Configuring axes and channels....................................................................................................... 11 2.2 Switchover sequence...................................................................................................................... 14 2.3 Positions off set............................................................................................................................... 15 2.4 Application examples...................................................................................................................... 17 3 PLC interface........................................................................................................................................... 18 4 HMI interface............................................................................................................................................ 20 5 Parameter................................................................................................................................................. 21 5.1 Overview......................................................................................................................................... 21 5.2 Description...................................................................................................................................... 21 5.3 CNC objects.................................................................................................................................... 23 6 Support and Service............................................................................................................................... 24 Index......................................................................................................................................................... 25 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 5 Jog of path
## Page 6

Table of contents 6 Version: TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Jog of path
## Page 7

List of figures List of figures Fig. 1 Moving axes by different channels............................................................................................... 9 Fig. 2 Configuring axes.......................................................................................................................... 12 Fig. 3 Initialising a cloned axis............................................................................................................... 13 Fig. 4 Handshake between axes when access to a channel axis is suspended.................................... 14 Fig. 5 Position offset by another channel............................................................................................... 15 Fig. 6 Position sequence of the example............................................................................................... 17 Fig. 7 Waiting for axis acknowledgement............................................................................................... 20 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 1.17 7 Jog of path
## Page 8

Overview 1 Overview Task This function permits a pause in the machining process to be made in a channel and to move the same physical axes from a second channel. This is referred to as a channel switchover. Properties Switching over a channel to react to events which require any path motion, e.g. changing a torch in a flame or gas cutting operation. Parameter An auxiliary channel is required here; it must contain the parameters [} 11] for the auxiliary axes. Mandatory note on references to other documents For the sake of clarity, links to other documents and parameters are abbreviated, e.g. [PROG] for the Programming Manual or P-AXIS-00001 for an axis parameter. For technical reasons, these links only function in the Online Help (HTML5, CHM) but not in pdf files since pdfs do not support cross-linking. 8 Version: 1.17 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Jog of path
## Page 9

Description 2 Description Request The user has the frequent request to interrupt a running program in order to insert a path motion and then continue the program after the interruption. Inserting a path motion can be implemented by using an “auxiliary channel”. In this document, an “auxiliary channel” is referred to as a jog-of-path channel. A jog-of-path channel contains linked axes which are connected to the same physical axes as the axes in the actual channel. Switchover Channels are switched over by the PLC. Exclusive access of a channel to physical axes is controlled by a control unit provided for each channel. Channel Channel 1 2 Original Jog of program path Logical axis of channel Position controller Physical axis (drive) Fig. 1: Moving axes by different channels Position offset When an axis is moved by an inserted path motion, it also retains the offset in the original channel as soon as this channel regains access to the axis. If this is not required, the user must ensure that the axes are returned to the position they were in before the interruption. TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 1.17 9 Jog of path
## Page 10

Description Licensing note No additional channel license is required for jog-of-path channels containing only axes which are linked to physical axes of other channels. The parameter P-CHAN-00306 [} 21] must be set for this purpose. Suspending axes is not possible when a channel is in error state, for example, due to a programming error or a channel axis error. Before suspending the channel axes, remove the error state and reset the channel. 10 Version: 1.17 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Jog of path
## Page 11

Description 2.1 Configuring axes and channels Axes In order to interrupt a machining process and move an axis by another channel, an additional logical axis (e.g. Log. Achs Nr. 11) is configured and linked to an existing physical axis (e.g. Log. Achs Nr. 1). The link is specified in the axis parameter kopf.link_to (P-AXIS-00101). A clone operation takes over all data from the original axis except for the new axis number. This is executed by the axis parameter kopf.clone_of (P-AXIS-00040) by specifying the axis number of the axis whose axis parameter list is to be copied. kopf.achs_nr 11 kopf.link_to 1 kopf.clone_of 1 Channels The channels are configured with the logical axes as usual. Channel 1 contains axes 1 to 3 as the main axes gruppe[0].achs_anzahl 3 gruppe[0].achse[0].log_achs_nr 1 gruppe[0].achse[0].bezeichnung X gruppe[0].achse[1].log_achs_nr 2 gruppe[0].achse[1].bezeichnung Y gruppe[0].achse[2].log_achs_nr 3 gruppe[0].achse[2].bezeichnung Z Channel 2 represents the jog-of-path channel and contains axes 11 to 13 as main axes gruppe[0].achs_anzahl 3 gruppe[0].achse[0].log_achs_nr 11 gruppe[0].achse[0].bezeichnung X gruppe[0].achse[1].log_achs_nr 12 gruppe[0].achse[1].bezeichnung Y gruppe[0].achse[2].log_achs_nr 13 gruppe[0].achse[2].bezeichnung Z The parameter P-CHAN-00306 [} 21] is set in the jog-of-path channel for checking the license. jog_of_path_only 1 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 1.17 11 Jog of path
## Page 12

Description Channel Channel 1 2 name = X name = X nr = 1 nr = 11 Channel Channel 1 2 Axis Axis Original Jog of nr = 11 nr = 1 program path clone of = 1 link to = 1 1 11 Logical axis of channel Position controller Physical axis 1 (drive interface) Fig. 2: Configuring axes Cloned axis To create a cloned axis, the axis must first already exist and be initialised before its axis parameter list can be used as a template for the cloned axis. A cloning process involves taking over the parameters of the axis which acts as a template only once. Any subsequent change in axis parameters has no effect on the cloned data set. It only modifies or overwrites the individual axis parameters. Spindle programming in the jog-of-path channel Spindle axes cannot be created as cloned axes. However, as of CNC Build V3.3081.5 or V3.1.3112.0, use of the functions G33, G331 and #CAX is permitted in the jog-of-path channel but this requires a spindle. A default main spindle must therefore be created in the jog-of-path channel. This permits the use of exactly one spindle in conjunction with the functions mentioned above without an additional channel license. 12 Version: 1.17 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Jog of path
## Page 13

Description Default list Master list Clone list axis = 11 axis = 1 System clone of = 1 start up Default values Fig. 3: Initialising a cloned axis The specified clone reference cannot be changed after the first initialisation. If the clone has no master axis, the error messages ID 70172 and ID 50462 are output and a cloned axis is created without a real cloning process. TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 1.17 13 Jog of path
## Page 14

Description 2.2 Switchover sequence Access to axes As long as the output of a channel is not suspended, the physical axes are linked to the logical axes of the channel. If a second channel requests the same physical axes as those of the first channel, the system waits automatically until the first channel has suspended its output. If axes move in the channel which suspends axis access, these axes are stopped by a feedhold triggered internally in the NC kernel. Channel 1 Suspend/ (inter- Logical axis Resume polator) of channel 1 Link request Link acknowledge Position controller Physical axis 1 (drive) Fig. 4: Handshake between axes when access to a channel axis is suspended If access to a physical axis is configured by two (or several) channels, one channel is not given ac- cess to the axes until all other channels have suspended their access. 14 Version: 1.17 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Jog of path
## Page 15

Description 2.3 Positions off set The link between a physical and a logical axis can be changed by an active program with the axes at standstill. After axis output is suspended, the axes can be moved by another channel. After an axis is returned to the original channel, the commanded position in the channel (command position) and the physical position (active position) may be different. This position offset is cleared at program start and with NC commands (such as #CHANNEL INIT[], deselection of G200 etc.) which cause a position adjustment in the channel. Therefore, the commanded position in the channel corresponds to the physical set position of the axis (command position = active position). The position offsets of the axes are cleared when the channel is initialised or at program start. Offset = command position (of active link) – active position Channel Channel 1 2 Original Jog of program path Logical axis 1 11 of channel Command Command position position 1 2 Active position Position controller Physical axis 1 (drive) Fig. 5: Position offset by another channel TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 1.17 15 Jog of path
## Page 16

Description Manual block in both channels Axis 1 of channel 1 and axis 11 of channel 2 are linked to the same physical axis. In each channel, a different manual block (without M30) is started and the channels are suspended one after another. Channel 1: Channel 2: Physical axis posi- Offset Offset Command position Command position tion channel 1 channel 2 (command (command (active position) position) position) 0 -> 50 0 -> 50 0 0 50 -> 15 50 -> 15 0 0 50 -> 80 15 -> 45 35 -30 15 -> 0 45 -> 30 50 -30 16 Version: 1.17 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Jog of path
## Page 17

Description 2.4 Application examples configuration 2 channels are configured. In channel 1, the Y axis is configured with log axis no. 2 and in channel 2, the cloned axis is configured with the log. axis no. 11. Configuration of an additional logical axis 11 for physical axis number 2 kopf.achs_nr 11 kopf.link_to 2 kopf.clone_of 2 Actions 1. Start manual block “G01 G90 X20 Y20 F100” in 1. Kanal 1 2. Set ”Suspend-Output” in the channel 1 to 1 3. Clear ”Suspend-Output” in the other channel 2 4. Start manual block “G91 Y10” in channel 2 and wait until it ends its execution 5. Clear “Suspend-Output” in channel 1 6. Set “Suspend-Output” in channel 2 Y 30 20 10 10 20 X Fig. 6: Position sequence of the example Alternatively, a motion can be started in manual mode in channel 2 instead of the manual block. TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 1.17 17 Jog of path
## Page 18

PLC interface 3 PLC interface The PLC interface provides control units to switch channel access to the axes and to display the axes. Interrupt output of command values to real axes Description This interrupts the output of NC channel command values to physical axes. The NC channel is stopped and assignment to the real axes is disabled. Physical axes can then be requested and moved by another channel. A different logical axis can be linked to a physical axis here. After clearing this interruption, the axes can be requested again and the original channel continues its motion. Data type MC_CONTROL_BOOL_UNIT, see description of Control unit Access PLC reads request_r + state_r and writes command_w + enable_w ST path gp Ch[channel_idx]^.bahn_mc_control.suspend_axis_output Commanded, requested and return values ST element .command_w .request_r .state_r Data type BOOL Value range [TRUE, FALSE] Redirection ST element .enable_w Position offset Description Display of the current offset of the absolute position between the position controller axis (real physical axis) and the interpolator axis (logical axis) currently linked in the axis coordinate system. The display here shows an offset between the interpolator position and the position controller position caused by the use of functions such as “jog of path” (see [FCT-C15 [} 8]]. The offset displayed contains no offsets caused by zero offsets, for example. Signal flow CNC → PLC ST path gp Ax[axis_idx]^.lr_state.position_offset_r Data type DINT Unit 0.1 µm Access PLC is reading Axis supply Description The command of the physical axes is executed by the logical axis specified in the NC channel. Signal flow CNC → PLC ST path gp Ax[axis_idx]^.lr_state.link_to_ipo_r Data type UINT Value range [= 0 – not linked, > 0 – logical axis number] Access PLC is reading Axis assignment Description The display shows the physical axes to which the commanded values of the logical axes are of the channel output. Signal flow CNC → PLC ST path gp Ax[axis_idx]^.ipo_state.link_to_lr 18 Version: 1.17 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Jog of path
## Page 19

PLC interface Data type UINT Value range [= 0 – not linked, > 0 – logical axis number] Access PLC is reading TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 1.17 19 Jog of path
## Page 20

HMI interface 4 HMI interface The current state of an axis can be read by the following channel-specific CNC objects of the axis. • requested_link_to_physical_axis • actual_link_to_physical_axis [} 23] • link_state [} 23] In the example below, channel 1 is waiting for the acknowledgement of the request for the second axis. This can be seen by the CNC object “link_state” which has the value 2. The command value suppression is not active in either channel. Fig. 7: Waiting for axis acknowledgement. 20 Version: 1.17 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Jog of path
## Page 21

Parameter 5 Parameter 5.1 Overview ID Parameter Meaning P-AXIS-00040 kopf.clone_of Axis copy P-AXIS-00101 kopf.link_to Link to the physical axis P-AXIS-00483 kenngr.auto_release_o Enabling of IPO-LR interface after axis release f_axis_link P-CHAN-00306 jog_of_path_only License check of the clone channel 5.2 Description Channel parameters P-CHAN-00306 Checking the license in the clone channel Description This parameter checks the license in the clone channel. When this parameter is set, a check is made during start-up whether all the axes configured in the channel are clone axes. Only then is this channel license-free. The check is also made at RESET and axis exchange. If an axis is not a clone axis, an error message is output. Parameter jog_of_path_only Data type BOOLEAN Data range 0/1 Dimension ---- Default value 0 Remarks This parameter allows the 2nd channel to be used as a Jog-Of-Path channel even with a single-channel license. The parameter is available as of Build V3.1.3037.17. Axis parameter P-AXIS-00040 Mapping of parameters of an existing axis for default configuration. Description For easier configuration, an axis could be a copy (clone) of another axis. This means, when the axis is initialised, the clone just uses the data of its master as template. The clone merely has to specify the differences to its master in the parameter list. Parameter kopf.clone_of Data type UNS16 Data range 0 < clone_of < MAX(UNS16) Axis types T, R, S Dimension T: ---- R,S: ---- Default value 0 drive types. ---- Remarks P-AXIS-00101 Linking an interpolator output to a specific physical axis. Description The parameter requests a link between the logical axis of the interpolator and the axis of the position controller (drive). If you attempt to link more than one logical axis to the same drive, all the other axes must wait until this link is temporarily interrupted by a command and released for a new connection. Parameter kopf.link_to TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 1.17 21 Jog of path
## Page 22

Parameter Data type UNS16 Data range 0 < link_to < MAX(UNS16) Axis types T, R, S Dimension T: ---- R,S: ---- Default value 0 drive types. ---- Remarks P-AXIS-00483 Enabling of IPO-LR interface after axis release Description A drive can be connected as part of the functionality 'Jog of Path' with more than one axis (link_to, P-AXIS-00101). Here the drive is supplied via the axis-specific interface between interpolator and position controller (see [FCT-C15 [} 8]]). If this type of linked axis leaves the interpolator after an axis release, and a SUSPEND command is executed in this channel, the interface is not enabled. Another channel that possibly requests this axis has no access to this interface and stops. By setting the parameter 'kenngr.auto_release_of_axis_link' this interface is automatically enabled when the axis is released and a system stop can be avoided. Parameter kenngr.auto_release_of_axis_link Data type BOOLEAN Data range 0/1 Axis types T, R, S Dimension T: ---- R,S: ---- Default value 0 drive types. ---- Remarks 22 Version: 1.17 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Jog of path
## Page 23

Parameter 5.3 CNC objects Name actual_link_to_physical_axis Description This object shows the currently assigned physical axis. (used for channel switchover) Task GEO (Port 551) Index group 0x12130<C > Index offset 0x<A >0017 ID ID Data type UNS16 Length 2 Attributes read Unit [-] Remarks Name link_state Description This object shows the state of the axis request, i.e. the assignment of logical and physical axes: 0 : Axis link already existing 1 : Physical axis is requested by the position controller 2 : Waiting for acknowledgement of the physical axis from the position controller (used for channel switchover) Task GEO (Port 551) Index group 0x12130<C > Index offset 0x<A >0018 ID ID Data type UNS32 Length 4 Attributes read Unit [-] Remarks TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 1.17 23 Jog of path
## Page 24

Support and Service 6 Support and Service Beckhoff and their partners around the world offer comprehensive support and service, making available fast and competent assistance with all questions related to Beckhoff products and system solutions. Download finder Our download finder contains all the files that we offer you for downloading. You will find application reports, technical documentation, technical drawings, configuration files and much more. The downloads are available in various formats. Beckhoff's branch offices and representatives Please contact your Beckhoff branch office or representative for local support and service on Beckhoff products! The addresses of Beckhoff's branch offices and representatives round the world can be found on our internet page: www.beckhoff.com You will also find further documentation for Beckhoff components there. Beckhoff Support Support offers you comprehensive technical assistance, helping you not only with the application of individual Beckhoff products, but also with other, wide-ranging services: • support • design, programming and commissioning of complex automation systems • and extensive training program for Beckhoff system components Hotline: +49 5246 963-157 e-mail: support@beckhoff.com Beckhoff Service The Beckhoff Service Center supports you in all matters of after-sales service: • on-site service • repair service • spare parts service • hotline service Hotline: +49 5246 963-460 e-mail: service@beckhoff.com Beckhoff Headquarters Beckhoff Automation Gmb H & Co. KG Huelshorstweg 20 33415 Verl Germany Phone: +49 5246 963-0 e-mail: info@beckhoff.com web: www.beckhoff.com 24 Version: 1.17 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Jog of path
## Page 25

Index Index O output of command values to real axes interrupt 18 P P-AXIS-00040 21 P-AXIS-00101 21 P-AXIS-00483 22 P-CHAN-00306 21 Position offset:physical, logical axis 18 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 1.17 25 Jog of path
## Page 27

More Information: www.beckhoff.com/TF5200 Beckhoff Automation Gmb H & Co. KG Hülshorstweg 20 33415 Verl Germany Phone: +49 5246 9630 info@beckhoff.com www.beckhoff.com
