---
title: "TF5200_rts_status_info_en"
product: "TF5200"
category: "Motion_Control"
tags: ["NC"]
language: "EN"
document_type: "Manual"
version: "1.06"
source_pdf: "https://download.beckhoff.com/download/Document/automation/twincat3/TF5200_rts_status_info_en.pdf"
release_date: "2024-07-09"
---
Functional description | EN TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Real time status information of CNC 7/9/2024 | Version: 1.06
## Page 3

Notes on the documentation Notes on the documentation This description is only intended for the use of trained specialists in control and automation engineering who are familiar with the applicable national standards. It is essential that the documentation and the following notes and explanations are followed when installing and commissioning the components. It is the duty of the technical personnel to use the documentation published at the respective time of each installation and commissioning. The responsible staff must ensure that the application or use of the products described satisfy all the requirements for safety, including all the relevant laws, regulations, guidelines and standards. Disclaimer The documentation has been prepared with care. The products described are, however, constantly under development. We reserve the right to revise and change the documentation at any time and without prior announcement. No claims for the modification of products that have already been supplied may be made on the basis of the data, diagrams and descriptions in this documentation. Trademarks Beckhoff®, Twin CAT®, Twin CAT/BSD®, TC/BSD®, Ether CAT®, Ether CAT G®, Ether CAT G10®, Ether CAT P®, Safety over Ether CAT®, Twin SAFE®, XFC®, XTS® and XPlanar® are registered trademarks of and licensed by Beckhoff Automation Gmb H. Other designations used in this publication may be trademarks whose use by third parties for their own purposes could violate the rights of the owners. Patent Pending The Ether CAT technology is patent protected, in particular by the following applications and patents: EP1590927, EP1789857, EP1456722, EP2137893, DE102015105702 with corresponding applications or registrations in various other countries. Ether CAT® is registered trademark and patented technology, licensed by Beckhoff Automation Gmb H, Germany Copyright © Beckhoff Automation Gmb H & Co. KG, Germany. The reproduction, distribution and utilisation of this document as well as the communication of its contents to others without express authorisation are prohibited. Offenders will be held liable for the payment of damages. All rights reserved in the event of the grant of a patent, utility model or design. TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 1.06 3 Real time status information of CNC
## Page 4

General and safety instructions General and safety instructions Icons used and their meanings This documentation uses the following icons next to the safety instruction and the associated text. Please read the (safety) instructions carefully and comply with them at all times. Icons in explanatory text 1. Indicates an action. ð Indicates an action statement. DANGER Acute danger to life! If you fail to comply with the safety instruction next to this icon, there is immediate danger to human life and health. CAUTION Personal injury and damage to machines! If you fail to comply with the safety instruction next to this icon, it may result in personal injury or damage to machines. NOTICE Restriction or error This icon describes restrictions or warns of errors. Tips and other notes This icon indicates information to assist in general understanding or to provide additional informa- tion. General example Example that clarifies the text. NC programming example Programming example (complete NC program or program sequence) of the described function or NC com- mand. Specific version information Optional or restricted function. The availability of this function depends on the configuration and the scope of the version. 4 Version: 1.06 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Real time status information of CNC
## Page 5

Table of contents Table of contents Notes on the documentation.................................................................................................................... 3 General and safety instructions.............................................................................................................. 4 1 Overview.................................................................................................................................................... 8 2 Status information..................................................................................................................................... 9 3 Description.............................................................................................................................................. 10 3.1 D_Covered Distance........................................................................................................................ 10 3.2 D_Command Feed, D_Active Feed.................................................................................................. 10 3.3 D_Stop Conditions........................................................................................................................... 11 3.4 X_Program End................................................................................................................................ 11 3.5 X_Wait Error Removal...................................................................................................................... 12 3.6 X_Interpolation Active, X_Dwell Time Active..................................................................................... 12 3.7 HLIBahn Coord Disp Data_Coord...................................................................................................... 12 3.8 HLISAdd Prog Info_Data................................................................................................................... 12 3.9 Extended status information............................................................................................................ 13 3.9.1 X_Speed Limit Detect, Look ahead for velocity limit value................................................ 13 3.9.2 Description....................................................................................................................... 14 4 Example................................................................................................................................................... 19 5 Parameter................................................................................................................................................. 20 5.1 Overview......................................................................................................................................... 20 5.2 Description...................................................................................................................................... 20 6 Support and Service............................................................................................................................... 22 Index......................................................................................................................................................... 23 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 1.06 5 Real time status information of CNC
## Page 6

Table of contents 6 Version: 1.06 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Real time status information of CNC
## Page 7

List of figures List of figures Fig. 1 Path shape block position over time of D_Covered Distance....................................................... 10 Fig. 2 Path velocity at D_Active Feed..................................................................................................... 10 Fig. 3 F Word and status signal “speed limit detected”.......................................................................... 14 Fig. 4 Timing diagram without override weighting (f_override_weight_v_limit = 0)................................ 15 Fig. 5 Timing diagram with override weighting (f_override_weight_v_limit = 1)..................................... 15 Fig. 6 Missing PLC acknowledgement and "speed limit detected" status signal................................... 16 Fig. 7 A restart after PLC acknowledgement resets the “speed limit detect” status signal.................... 17 Fig. 8 Inadequate block supply results in the activation of the "speed limit detected" signal................. 18 Fig. 9 F word and “speed limit detected” status signal........................................................................... 19 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 1.06 7 Real time status information of CNC
## Page 8

Overview 1 Overview Task The CNC provides the user with 2 types of status information: 1. Status information and status signals of an informative nature provided to the user by means of dis- play data or by the HMI or the PLC. 2. Status information on improved techniques to master machining technologies. Characteristics Real-time status signals consist of information from the real-time area of the CNC. The status information provided by the path interpolator is described below. This mainly consists of information regarding CNC operation modes such as: • active manual mode, • active path interpolation, • program status and • state information regarding CNC-internal sequences. This information is useful for diagnosis purposes. The PLC can control or influence the internal status process by the logical linking of status signals. The CNC also provides status information to improve mastery of specific machining technologies with the support of the PLC. The information signals described are located in the HLI interface. Programming Status information on the HLI with the structure State Bahn is created and is invokable in the PLC programming language Structured Text on the path p MC[Channel Idx]^.addr^. State Bahn_Data… Mandatory note on references to other documents For the sake of clarity, links to other documents and parameters are abbreviated, e.g. [PROG] for the Programming Manual or P-AXIS-00001 for an axis parameter. For technical reasons, these links only function in the Online Help (HTML5, CHM) but not in pdf files since pdfs do not support cross-linking. 8 Version: 1.06 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Real time status information of CNC
## Page 9

Status information 2 Status information This documentation only lists the most important status information that is valid at interpolator level. A complete description of all available access or influencing options can be found in the documentation [HLI, section "Status information of a channel"]. The information listed below is saved on the HLI in the structure State Bahn and can be invoked in the PLC programming language structured text on the path. p MC[Channel Idx]^.addr^. State Bahn_Data… . Status information Meaning D_Covered Distance Current block position or path distance D_Command Feed Programmed feedrate (F word) D_Active Feed Current path feedrate D_Stop Conditions Current stop condition (bit-encoded) X_Program End Program end reached (M30) X_Wait Error Removal Wait for error acknowledgement by user X_Interpolation Active Interpolation is active X_Axes In Position Axis group is in position X_Wait Axes In Position Wait until axes are in position X_Wait Techno Acknowledge Wait for acknowledgement from PLC X_Wait Continue Wait for user continuation request X_Dwell Time Active Wait due to dwell time X_Block Search Active Interpolator block search active X_Speed Limit Detect Speed limit undershot HLIBahn Coord Disp Data_Coord CNC coordinates and coordinate system HLISAdd Prog Info_Data Additional program information TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 1.06 9 Real time status information of CNC
## Page 10

Description 3 Description 3.1 D_Covered Distance Data type HLI_SGN32 ST path p MC[Channel Idx]^.addr^. State Bahn_Data. D_Covered Distance This variable contains the current block position referred to the path distance in space in the motion block in per mil sd(t). The spatial path results from the path components of the main axes and the path component of a single axis. Within a motion block, the value sd(t) always varies within the range of 0 < D_Covered Distance < 1000. Covered distance sd(t) 1000 500 sd(t1) t t1 0 Fig. 1: Path shape block position over time of D_Covered Distance 3.2 D_Command Feed, D_Active Feed Data type HLI_SGN32 ST path p MC[Channel Idx]^.addr^. State Bahn_Data. D_Command Feed p MC[Channel Idx]^.addr^. State Bahn_Data. D_Active Feed The D_Command Feed variable contains the path velocity programmed via the F word. D_Active Feed is the current command path feedrate in the block. v(t) Programmed path feedrate F10000 Current commanded path feedrate t 0 Fig. 2: Path velocity at D_Active Feed 10 Version: 1.06 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Real time status information of CNC
## Page 11

Description 3.3 D_Stop Conditions Data type HLI_UNS32 ST path p MC[Channel Idx]^.addr^. State Bahn_Data. D_Stop Conditions In bit-encoded form, this contains the stop conditions which cause a motion stop or a program execution stop in the interpolator as a result of NC programming or a PLC command. The table below shows the constants which are defined for these stop conditions in the PLC: Stop condition Constant in PLC Status bit Feedhold SC_BIT_FEEDHOLD 0x0000 0001 No axis-specific feed enable SC_BIT_VFG 0x0000 0002 Single step mode active SC_BIT_SINGLE_BLOCK 0x0000 0004 Wait due to M00, M01 SC_BIT_M00_OR_M01 0x0000 0010 Wait for PLC acknowledgement SC_BIT_PLC_ACKNOWLEDGE 0x0000 0020 Override = 0 SC_BIT_OVERRIDE_ZERO 0x0000 0040 Dwell time SC_BIT_DELAY_TIME 0x0000 0200 Channel synchronisation active SC_BIT_CHANNEL_SYNC 0x0000 0800 IPO input FIFO empty SC_BIT_IPO_INPUT_EMPTY 0x0000 1000 Read-in enable SC_BIT_IPO_INPUT_DISABLED 0x0000 2000 Wait for axes in case of axis exchange SC_BIT_WAIT_FOR_AXES 0x0000 8000 Channel in error state SC_BIT_CHANNEL_ERROR 0x0001 0000 Waiting for acknowledgement of M/H/ST SC_BIT_STOP_WAIT_TECHNO_ACKN 0x0002 0000 technology functions Wait to continue motion after a collision is SC_BIT_WAIT_CONT_AFTER_COLLISION 0x0004 0000 detected Block supply problem (HSC slope only) SC_BIT_SLOPE_SUPPLY_PROBLEM 0x0008 0000 Back-interpolation after tracking mode SC_BIT_BACK_INTERPOLATION 0x0010 0000 active 3.4 X_Program End Data type HLI_BOOLEAN ST path p MC[Channel Idx]^.addr^. State Bahn_Data. X_Program End This status information indicates that the program end is reached or that no NC program is currently executed. TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 1.06 11 Real time status information of CNC
## Page 12

Description 3.5 X_Wait Error Removal Data type HLI_BOOLEAN ST path p MC[Channel Idx]^.addr^. State Bahn_Data. X_Wait Error Removal This status is indicated in the event of a CNC error in the real-time area that can be removed by means of an NC reset (depending on the error reaction class). 3.6 X_Interpolation Active, X_Dwell Time Active Data type HLI_BOOLEAN ST path p MC[Channel Idx]^.addr^. State Bahn_Data. X_Interpolation Active p MC[Channel Idx]^.addr^. State Bahn_Data. X_Dwell Time Active Block is in the process of being interpolated The X_Interpolation Active status is indicated if a part program with path motions is in execution and if a path block is being currently interpolated in the real-time part. N20 G01 X10 Y20 Z30 F2000 #Block is currently interpolated Block currently executed with dwell time The X_Dwell Time Active status is indicated if a part program with dwell time is in execution and a block with a dwell time is currently being executed in the real-time part. N20 G04 10 #Block is currently executed with dwell time 3.7 HLIBahn Coord Disp Data_Coord Data type HLIBahn Coord Disp Data ST path p MC[Channel Idx]^.addr^. State Bahn_Data. HLIBahn Coord Disp Data_Coord[Ch Ax Idx] … This consists of the coordinates of various coordinate systems that the CNC can provide to the outside world. 3.8 HLISAdd Prog Info_Data Data type HLISAdd Prog Info ST path p MC[Channel Idx]^.addr^. State Bahn_Data. HLISAdd Prog Info_Data…. This consists of additional information that can be retrieved in relation to the NC program. 12 Version: 1.06 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Real time status information of CNC
## Page 13

Description 3.9 Extended status information 3.9.1 X_Speed Limit Detect, Look ahead for velocity limit value Data type HLISAdd Prog Info ST path p MC[Channel Idx]^.addr^. State Bahn_Data. X_Speed Limit Detect General This function generates a CNC status signal depending on the motion blocks and the current path velocity. It is mainly used for plasma cutting technology to deactivate distance control of the cutting head via the PLC if the speed drops below a certain limit. This occurs, for example • when decelerating ahead of and • accelerating after a corner. Therefore, the critical positions in the motion segment (corner) are defined by a speed limit. "Speed limit detect” status flag The “speed limit detect” status flag to the PLC is set if the current path velocity is below the specified limit. The drop in path velocity results from: • Reduction in velocity at block transition due to a kink in the path contour. • Reduction of velocity due to override setting. • Expected M function acknowledgement from PLC at block transition. • Look-ahead reduces velocity because of inadequate block supply. Zone In addition the signal can be set in advance or cleared with a delay at a specified distance (time/distance). • Advance: The expected velocity at block end undershoots the speed limit, for example due to a geometrical corner. The status flag is set in advance at the specified distance to the expected limit undershoot. • Delay: The expected velocity at block start already undershoots the speed limit. The status flag is again cleared with a delay at the specified distance to the actual speed overshoot. Clear I.e. the status flag is reset when both of the following conditions are met: • The current path velocity rises above the speed limit. • The path position is outside the specified time and distance delay. TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 1.06 13 Real time status information of CNC
## Page 14

Description 3.9.2 Description Activation When the function is activated, a CNC status signal is generated according to the control flag P- CHAN-00017 and signals a speed limit undershoot or the detection of a future speed limit undershoot. Limit value The speed limit is defined via the percentage weighting (P-CHAN-00089) of the F word in the NC program. Advance, delay The expected drop in velocity at block end can be signalled in advance by the parameter P-CHAN-00013. Accordingly, the signal can also be cleared with a delay by the parameter P-CHAN-00012. The parameters P-CHAN-00012 / P-CHAN-00013 can therefore define a type of hysteresis. Distance, time The parameter P-CHAN-00018 defines the zone parameter unit as either a distance or time. The CNC generates the “speed limit detect” status signal if the path position is inside this zone. path velocity N20 F5000 N30 F10000 velocity limit t Statussignal "speed limit detected" t 14 Version: 1.06 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Real time status information of CNC noitisnart kcolb N40 F10000 end velocity of block distance to "corner" noitisnart kcolb distance from "corner" Fig. 3: F Word and status signal “speed limit detected” Influence of override The parameter P-CHAN-00155 controls the influence of the speed limit by means of the real-time feed override. In the default setting (P-CHAN-00155 = 0), the real-time feed override does not influence the speed limit P-CHAN-00089. The “speed limit detect” status signal is also set if the path speed weighted by the override drops below the speed limit P-CHAN-00089. Since an override is an online user-initiated influence on speed, the delay/advance of the status signal cannot be evaluated in this case.
## Page 15

Description Path velocity Block transition Block transition N20 F5000 N30 F10000 N40 F10000 50% override Speed limit value Block end velocity t State signal "speed limit detected" t Fig. 4: Timing diagram without override weighting (f_override_weight_v_limit = 0) When P-CHAN-00155 is set, the parameterised speed limit P-CHAN-00089 is weighted by the override value. This is desirable e.g. for path start-up or run-in. Note that, with a non-constant programmed feed, the "speed limit detect" signal is activated in each acceleration phase because the speed limit at the start of the block is set to the new value. Path velocity Block transition Block transition N20 F5000 N30 F10000 N40 F10000 50% override Block end velocity Speed limit value t State signal "speed limit detected" t Fig. 5: Timing diagram with override weighting (f_override_weight_v_limit = 1) Influence of technology functions The “speed limit detect” status signal is set if the CNC has to stop and wait due to certain types of technology functions or missing PLC synchronisation. In this case, the signal advance or delay related to the set time or distance is also evaluated. TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 1.06 15 Real time status information of CNC
## Page 16

Description Waiting for PLC acknowledgement 16 Version: 1.06 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Real time status information of CNC timil kcolb path velocity N10 F10000 velocity limit t Statussignal "speed limit detected" distance distance to "corner" from t "corner" noitareleced egdelwonkca CLP N20 F10000 Fig. 6: Missing PLC acknowledgement and "speed limit detected" status signal With M functions of the MVS_SNS type, later synchronisation or M functions with look-ahead are only stopped if the PLC acknowledgement is missing. If the PLC acknowledgement arrives before the motion, a restart can be executed immediately. However, the advance signal (advance, distance to “corner”) can still be executed correctly although an actual speed undershoot no longer arrives.
## Page 17

Description PLC acknowledgement during deceleration TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 1.06 17 Real time status information of CNC noitisnart kcolb path velocity N20 F10000 velocity limit t Statussignal "speed limit detected" t noitareleced egdelwonkca CLP N10 F10000 distance to "corner" detcepxe tucrednu Fig. 7: A restart after PLC acknowledgement resets the “speed limit detect” status signal. Each M or H function of the MVS_SVS or MNS_SNS type always results in a motion stop (see also [FCT-C1]).
## Page 18

Description Interruption of block supply If the path velocity fluctuates due to short blocks and inadequate block supply, this may cause activation of the “speed limit detect” status signal. In the example below the advance/delay parameters (distance to corner and distance from corner) are disabled for the sake of simplification. path velocity N10 F10000 N20 N30 N40 block transition t Statussignal "speed limit detected" t Fig. 8: Inadequate block supply results in the activation of the "speed limit detected" signal. 18 Version: 1.06 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Real time status information of CNC
## Page 19

Example 4 Example The “speed limit detect” status signal is generated depending on the set parameters if the programmed paths cause deceleration along the path and the speed drops below the speed limit, e.g. due to a corner. Parameter Excerpt from the channel parameter list [CHAN]: # Speed limit look ahead parameterisation # ====================================== speed_limit_look_ahead.f_enable 1 speed_limit_look_ahead.v_limit 750 speed_limit_look_ahead.f_time 0 speed_limit_look_ahead.dist_to_corner 10000 speed_limit_look_ahead.dist_from_corner 10000 speed_limit_look_ahead.f_override_weight_v_limit 0 Parameters can also be changed in the NC program by appropriate variables (V. G. SPEED_LIMIT.*) [PROG]. "Speed limit detect” status signal Speed drop at end of NC block %main X0 Y0 N10 G01 X50 F5000 N20 X100 N30 X150 N40 X200 (speed drop at end of NC block) N50 X250 Y-25 N60 X300 Y-50 M30 The parameters listed above and the F word in the NC program result in: Speed limit = 75% of the programmed velocity → v_limit = 3750 mm/min (62500 um/s) In the NC program example the path velocity drops to 8.562 um/s at block transition N40 -> N50 due to a path kink angle of 30 degrees. This means that the “speed limit detect” status signal is set 1 mm before limit speed undershoot at the block end of N40 and reset 1 mm after limit speed overshoot at the block start of N50. path velocity block limit N40 X200 N50 X250 Y-25 velocity limit: 75% von F5000 block end velocity t 1 mm 1 mm Status signal "speed limit detected" distance to "corner" distance from "corner" t Fig. 9: F word and “speed limit detected” status signal TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 1.06 19 Real time status information of CNC
## Page 20

Parameter 5 Parameter 5.1 Overview ID Parameter Description P-CHAN-00012 dist_from_corner Distance to corner P-CHAN-00013 dist_to_corner Distance from corner P-CHAN-00017 enable Enabling/disabling the function P-CHAN-00018 time Control flag (distance or time) for P-CHAN-00012/13 P-CHAN-00089 limit Weighting of the velocity limit P-CHAN-00155 override_weight_v_limi Weighting of the velocity limit value by override t 5.2 Description P-CHAN-00012 Distance from corner for speed limit look ahead Description The logical signal SLD 1 ->0 is generated depending on the parameters 'distance from corner' or 'time from corner'. Here, corner means the position in the block at which the speed rises again above the speed limit. Parameter speed_limit_look_ahead.dist_from_corner Data type UNS32 Data range 0 ... MAX(UNS32) Dimension 0.1µm or µs Default value 0 Remarks P-CHAN-00013 Distance to corner for speed limit look ahead Description The logical signal SLD 0 ->1 is generated in advance depending on the parameters 'distance to corner' or 'time to corner'. Here, corner means the position in the block at which the speed drops below the speed limit. Parameter speed_limit_look_ahead.dist_to_corner Data type UNS32 Data range 0 ... MAX(UNS32) Dimension 0.1µm or µs Default value 0 Remarks P-CHAN-00017 Enable/disable speed limit look ahead Description Parameter to enable or disable the speed limit look ahead function. Parameter speed_limit_look_ahead.enable Data type BOOLEAN Data range 0: Speed limit look ahead is disabled. 1: Speed limit look ahead is enabled. Dimension ---- Default value 0 Remarks speed_limit_look_ahead.f_enable (old syntax up to V2.11.2022.13) P-CHAN-00018 Unit to interpret the SLD signal for look-ahead speed 20 Version: 1.06 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Real time status information of CNC
## Page 21

Parameter Description The logical signal SLD is generated depending on the parameter values for distance or time. Parameter speed_limit_look_ahead.time Data type BOOLEAN Data range 0: The distance parameters P-CHAN-00012 and P-CHAN-00013 are interpreted as path. 1: The parameters P-CHAN-00012 and P-CHAN-00013 are interpreted as time. Dimension ---- Default value 0 Remarks speed_limit_look_ahead.f_time (old syntax up to V2.11.2022.13) P-CHAN-00089 Weighting of speed limit for speed limit look ahead Description Speed limit value in 0.1 percent of programmed speed. If current speed falls below the limit v = v *v_limit/1000, prog the logical signal SLD 0 ->1 is generated. Parameter speed_limit_look_ahead.v_limit Data type UNS32 Data range 0 ... MAX(UNS32) Dimension 0.1% Default value 0 Remarks P-CHAN-00155 Weighting the speed limit via override for Speed limit Look Ahead function Description This parameter controls the influence of the speed limit via the real-time feed override. In the default setting, the real-time feed override does not influence the speed limit P- CHAN-00089 (v_limit). However, if this is desirable e.g. to commission or enter contours, the parameter is set to 1. Then the parametrised speed limit value is weighted by the override value. Note that at a non-constant programmed feed, the SLD signal is activated in each acceleration phase because the speed limit at the start of the block is set to the new value. Parameter speed_limit_look_ahead.override_weight_v_limit Data type BOOLEAN Data range 0: No weighting of P-CHAN-00089 (default). 1: Weighting of P-CHAN-00089 via override. Dimension ---- Default value 0 Remarks f_override_weight_v_limit (old syntax up to V2.11.2022.13) TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 1.06 21 Real time status information of CNC
## Page 22

Support and Service 6 Support and Service Beckhoff and their partners around the world offer comprehensive support and service, making available fast and competent assistance with all questions related to Beckhoff products and system solutions. Download finder Our download finder contains all the files that we offer you for downloading. You will find application reports, technical documentation, technical drawings, configuration files and much more. The downloads are available in various formats. Beckhoff's branch offices and representatives Please contact your Beckhoff branch office or representative for local support and service on Beckhoff products! The addresses of Beckhoff's branch offices and representatives round the world can be found on our internet page: www.beckhoff.com You will also find further documentation for Beckhoff components there. Beckhoff Support Support offers you comprehensive technical assistance, helping you not only with the application of individual Beckhoff products, but also with other, wide-ranging services: • support • design, programming and commissioning of complex automation systems • and extensive training program for Beckhoff system components Hotline: +49 5246 963-157 e-mail: support@beckhoff.com Beckhoff Service The Beckhoff Service Center supports you in all matters of after-sales service: • on-site service • repair service • spare parts service • hotline service Hotline: +49 5246 963-460 e-mail: service@beckhoff.com Beckhoff Headquarters Beckhoff Automation Gmb H & Co. KG Huelshorstweg 20 33415 Verl Germany Phone: +49 5246 963-0 e-mail: info@beckhoff.com web: www.beckhoff.com 22 Version: 1.06 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Real time status information of CNC
## Page 23

Index Index P P-CHAN-00012 20 P-CHAN-00013 20 P-CHAN-00017 20 P-CHAN-00018 20 P-CHAN-00089 21 P-CHAN-00155 21 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 1.06 23 Real time status information of CNC
## Page 25

More Information: www.beckhoff.com/TF5200 Beckhoff Automation Gmb H & Co. KG Hülshorstweg 20 33415 Verl Germany Phone: +49 5246 9630 info@beckhoff.com www.beckhoff.com
