---
title: "TF5200"
product: "TF5200"
category: "Motion_Control"
tags: ["NC"]
language: "EN"
document_type: "Manual"
version: "1.17"
source_pdf: "https://download.beckhoff.com/download/Document/automation/twincat3/TF5200_manual_mode_parameter_en.pdf"
release_date: "2025-06-05"
---
Manual | EN TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Manual mode parameter 6/5/2025 | Version: 1.17
## Page 3

Notes on the documentation Notes on the documentation This description is only intended for the use of trained specialists in control and automation engineering who are familiar with the applicable national standards. It is essential that the documentation and the following notes and explanations are followed when installing and commissioning the components. It is the duty of the technical personnel to use the documentation published at the respective time of each installation and commissioning. The responsible staff must ensure that the application or use of the products described satisfy all the requirements for safety, including all the relevant laws, regulations, guidelines and standards. Disclaimer The documentation has been prepared with care. The products described are, however, constantly under development. We reserve the right to revise and change the documentation at any time and without prior announcement. No claims for the modification of products that have already been supplied may be made on the basis of the data, diagrams and descriptions in this documentation. Trademarks Beckhoff®, Twin CAT®, Twin CAT/BSD®, TC/BSD®, Ether CAT®, Ether CAT G®, Ether CAT G10®, Ether CAT P®, Safety over Ether CAT®, Twin SAFE®, XFC®, XTS® and XPlanar® are registered trademarks of and licensed by Beckhoff Automation Gmb H. Other designations used in this publication may be trademarks whose use by third parties for their own purposes could violate the rights of the owners. Patent Pending The Ether CAT technology is patent protected, in particular by the following applications and patents: EP1590927, EP1789857, EP1456722, EP2137893, DE102015105702 with corresponding applications or registrations in various other countries. Ether CAT® is registered trademark and patented technology, licensed by Beckhoff Automation Gmb H, Germany Copyright © Beckhoff Automation Gmb H & Co. KG, Germany. The reproduction, distribution and utilisation of this document as well as the communication of its contents to others without express authorisation are prohibited. Offenders will be held liable for the payment of damages. All rights reserved in the event of the grant of a patent, utility model or design. TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 1.17 3 Manual mode parameter
## Page 4

General and safety instructions General and safety instructions Icons used and their meanings This documentation uses the following icons next to the safety instruction and the associated text. Please read the (safety) instructions carefully and comply with them at all times. Icons in explanatory text 1. Indicates an action. ð Indicates an action statement. DANGER Acute danger to life! If you fail to comply with the safety instruction next to this icon, there is immediate danger to human life and health. CAUTION Personal injury and damage to machines! If you fail to comply with the safety instruction next to this icon, it may result in personal injury or damage to machines. NOTICE Restriction or error This icon describes restrictions or warns of errors. Tips and other notes This icon indicates information to assist in general understanding or to provide additional informa- tion. General example Example that clarifies the text. NC programming example Programming example (complete NC program or program sequence) of the described function or NC com- mand. Specific version information Optional or restricted function. The availability of this function depends on the configuration and the scope of the version. 4 Version: 1.17 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Manual mode parameter
## Page 5

Table of contents Table of contents Notes on the documentation.................................................................................................................... 3 General and safety instructions.............................................................................................................. 4 Overview of manual mode parameter..................................................................................................... 7 1 General description.................................................................................................................................. 8 1.1 Links to other documents.................................................................................................................. 8 1.2 Structure and classification of manual mode parameters................................................................. 8 1.3 Syntax and interpretation of ASCII list file......................................................................................... 9 1.4 Comments in the ASCII list file........................................................................................................ 10 2 Description of elements......................................................................................................................... 11 2.1 Settings for handwheels.................................................................................................................. 11 2.1.1 Number of physical handwheels (P-MANU-00001)......................................................... 11 2.1.2 Handwheel data (hr_data[i].*).......................................................................................... 12 2.2 Inching key settings......................................................................................................................... 16 2.2.1 Number of inching key pairs (P-MANU-00008)................................................................ 16 2.2.2 Inching key data (tasten_data[i].*).................................................................................... 16 2.3 Processing feedhold (feedhold.*).................................................................................................... 17 2.3.1 Handwheel mode (P-MANU-00010)................................................................................ 17 2.3.2 Jogging mode (P-MANU-00011)...................................................................................... 17 2.4 Messages at offset limits (P-MANU-00014).................................................................................... 17 3 Example of assigning manual mode parameters................................................................................. 18 4 Support and Service............................................................................................................................... 19 Index......................................................................................................................................................... 20 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 5 Manual mode parameter
## Page 6

Table of contents 6 Version: TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Manual mode parameter
## Page 7

Overview of manual mode parameter Overview of manual mode parameter The overview of real-time parameters is sorted into a 4-column table. • Column 1 contains the unambiguous identifier of the real-time parameter called the “ID” which consists of the prefix “P-MANU” and a unique 5-digit number, e.g. P-MANU-00002. • Column 2 represents the data structure which defines the parameter, e.g. hr_data[i]. The structure is a categorisation aid and is described in the following section. If an entry is missing in ‘structure’, this is not an error. The parameter in column 3 is then only valid on its own. • Column 3 contains the “parameter” with its exact name, e.g. log_hr_nr The important thing is that “structure”+”parameter” always belong together and must be configured in exactly the same way in the manual mode parameter list, e.g. hr_data[i].log_hr_nr • Column 4 contains the “functionality” in a summarised term/short description, e.g. Logical handwheel number. ID Structure Parameter Functionality/short de- scription P-MANU-00001 [} 11] hr_anzahl Number of physical handwheels P-MANU-00002 [} 12] hr_data[i]. log_hr_nr Logical handwheel number P-MANU-00003 [} 12] hr_data[i]. hr_zaehler_direct_access Access to handwheel counter address P-MANU-00004 [} 13] hr_data[i]. adr_hr_zaehler Handwheel counter address P-MANU-00005 [} 14] hr_data[i]. hr_aufl_z Handwheel resolution numerator P-MANU-00006 [} 14] hr_data[i]. hr_aufl_n Handwheel resolution denominator P-MANU-00007 [} 14] hr_data[i]. max_inkr_pro_takt Upper limit for handwheel increments P-MANU-00008 [} 16] tasten_anzahl Number of inching key pairs P-MANU-00009 [} 16] tasten_data[i]. log_tasten_nr Logical key number P-MANU-00010 [} 17] feedhold hr_inkr_verwerfen Handwheel mode P-MANU-00011 [} 17] feedhold .jog_inkr_verwerfen Jogging mode P-MANU-00012 [} 15] hr_data[i]. hr_abs_pos_init Offset on activation P-MANU-00013 [} 15] hr_data[i]. mode Processing handwheel increments P-MANU-00014 [} 17] move_limit_warning Output a message at offset limit TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 1.17 7 Manual mode parameter
## Page 8

General description 1 General description 1.1 Links to other documents For the sake of clarity, links to other documents and parameters are abbreviated, e.g. [PROG] for the Programming Manual or P-AXIS-00001 for an axis parameter. For technical reasons these links only function in the Online Help (HTML5, CHM) but not in pdf files since pdfs do not support cross-linking. 1.2 Structure and classification of manual mode parameters The parameters of the Machine Data Block contain configuration data for manual mode. The list assigns hardware information of physical handwheels and inching keys required for manual mode to logical manual mode elements. For example, the hardware addresses of physical handwheels are assigned to logical handwheels. It also defines the number of handwheels and inching key pairs and general configuration data for manual mode. The parameters are structured as follows: • Number of configured handwheels • Parameterisation data of individual handwheels • Number of configured inching keys • Parameterisation data of individual inching keys • Processing manual mode motion paths during a feedhold The field indices to be specified in the list correspond to the internal manual mode indexing of axis and manual mode elements. The value ranges of parameters are also defined if necessary by specifying a limit arising from the data format, e.g. MAX(UNS32) etc. 8 Version: 1.17 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Manual mode parameter
## Page 9

General description 1.3 Syntax and interpretation of ASCII list file An interpreter copies the entries in the ASCII list file into identical internal structures which are then checked for plausibility. To ensure reliable controller start-up every time, any defective entries found by the plausibility check are replaced by default values. Unknown entries are not taken over. These irregularities are displayed by warning messages. We advise you to investigate the cause for these warning messages and remove defective entries from the ASCII list file. The following agreement applies to BOOLEAN data: Value Meaning 0 Definition of FALSE 1 Definition of TRUE The following agreement applies to STRING data: If a character string containing characters with a special meaning in ASCII lists (e.g. comment characters, spaces [} 10]) is assigned to a STRING type list parameter, this character string must be defined in inverted commas ″..″ (available as of V3.1.3081.0, V3.1.3108.0). example[0].name ″STRING_WITH_COMMENT( # /*)_CHARACTERS″ Trailing spaces are discarded on import. The entry.. example[0].name ″STRING_WITH_POST_SPACES ″ ..has the same meaning as example[0].name ″STRING_WITH_POST_SPACES″ If the character string only contains characters without any special meaning, no inverted commas are required. example[0].name STRING_WITH_STANDARD_CHARACTERS! TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 1.17 9 Manual mode parameter
## Page 10

General description 1.4 Comments in the ASCII list file Comments can be in an entire line or can be added at the end of a line. With a comment spanning an entire line, the comment character "'#" must be placed at the start of the line and followed by a blank. If a comment is to be inserted at the end of a line, only a blank is required before the comment. Blank lines are also possible. Comments in the ASCII list file # ************************************************************************ # Data # ************************************************************************ # # List comments after numerical values dummy[1] 1 Comment dummy[2] 1 # Comment dummy[3] 1 ( Comment dummy[4] 1 /* Comment ... ... However, if a character string was assigned to the list parameter as a value in the line, any following comment must be opened by a bracket '('. The comment characters space, # and /* are not permitted. If a '(' itself is part of the character string, the character string must be defined in inverted commas ″..″ (available as of V3.1.3081.0, V3.1.3108.0). # List comments after strings beispiel[0].bezeichnung STRING_1 (comment requires a '(‘ bracket!) beispiel[1].bezeichnung″ STRING_(2)″ (comment requires a '(‘ bracket!) 10 Version: 1.17 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Manual mode parameter
## Page 11

Description of elements 2 Description of elements 2.1 Settings for handwheels 2.1.1 Number of physical handwheels (P-MANU-00001) P-MANU-00001 Number of physical handwheels Description This parameter defines the handwheel number. Parameter hr_anzahl Data type UNS16 Data range 0 ... 6 (maximum number of handwheels, application-specific) Dimension ---- Default value 0 Remarks The number of handwheels must correspond to the handwheels assigned in the handwheel data list 'hr_data[i]'. Parameterisation example: Two physical handwheels are to be configured. hr_anzahl 2 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 1.17 11 Manual mode parameter
## Page 12

Description of elements 2.1.2 Handwheel data (hr_data[i].*) The configuration data for existing handwheels are stored in the structure 'hr_data[i]'. Structure name Index hr_data[i] i = 0 ... 5 (number of handwheels: 6, application-specific) 2.1.2.1 Logical handwheel number (P-MANU-00002) P-MANU-00002 Logical handwheel number Description This parameter defines the logical handwheel number of a handwheel. The logical handwheel number is unique throughout the entire system. The logical handwheel number is used to assign activation and deactivation jobs by software to a physical handwheel. The logical handwheel number is also used to assign a physical handwheel to a logical axis. Parameter hr_data[i].log_hr_nr Data type UNS16 Data range 1 ... MAX(UNS16) Dimension ---- Default value 0 Remarks A logical handwheel number may not be assigned several times. If this is the case, the data plausibility check generates an error message. The logical handwheel number ‘0’ is not permitted. Activating and deactivating manual modes is described in [PROG]. Parameterisation example: Two physical handwheels are configured. They are identified by logical handwheel numbers ‘1’ and ‘2’. hr_data[0].log_hr_nr 1 #logical handwheel number Handwheel 1 ......... hr_data[1].log_hr_nr 2 #logical handwheel number Handwheel 2 .......... 2.1.2.2 Access to handwheel counter address (P-MANU-00003) P-MANU-00003 Access to handwheel counter address Description This parameter defines whether the handwheel increments are read in from a counter module or via the High Level Interface (HLI). Parameter hr_data[i].hr_zaehler_direct_access Data type BOOLEAN Data range 0: Handwheel counter address is located on High Level Interface (HLI). Always with operating systems with virtual address space (e.g. RTWin, NT). 1: Handwheel counter address is located on the hardware (HW). At present, only implemented for operating systems with absolute address space (e.g. Vx Works, OS9). Dimension ---- Default value 0 Remarks Parameterisation example: Handwheel increments are read directly by a counter module. hr_data[0].hr_zaehler_direct_access 1 #Direct hardware access Handwheel1. 12 Version: 1.17 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Manual mode parameter
## Page 13

Description of elements 2.1.2.3 Handwheel counter address (P-MANU-00004) P-MANU-00004 Handwheel counter address Description Depending on the element P-MANU-00003 [} 12] the parameter here defines either the index in the HLI array to read in the increments or the physical handwheel counter address. Parameter hr_data[i].adr_hr_zaehler Data type UNS16 Data range 0 ... 5: Array index in the High Level Interface (HLI) where P-MANU-00003 [} 12] = 0 >0: Physical address of a counter module where P-MANU-00003 [} 12] = 1 Dimension ---- Default value 0 Remarks Parameterisation example 1: Increments for handwheels ‘1’ and ‘2’ are read in via the HLI interface. hr_data[0].log_hr_nr 1 #logical handwheel number Handwheel 1 hr_data[0].hr_zaehler_direct_access 0 #HLI access Handwheel 1 hr_data[0].adr_hr_zaehler 0 #Index in HLI array Handwheel 1 ……. hr_data[1].log_hr_nr 2 #logical handwheel number Handwheel 2 hr_data[0].hr_zaehler_direct_access 0 #HLI access Handwheel 2 hr_data[1].adr_hr_zaehler 1 #Index in HLI array Handwheel 2 Parameterisation example 2: Increments for handwheels ‘1’ and ‘2’ are read in by direct hardware access. hr_data[0].log_hr_nr 1 #logical handwheel number Handwheel 1 hr_data[0].hr_zaehler_direct_access 1 #Hardware access Handwheel 1 hr_data[0].adr_hr_zaehler 0x0030 #Address Handwheel 1 …. hr_data[1].log_hr_nr 2 #logical handwheel number Handwheel 2 hr_data[1].hr_zaehler_direct_access 1 #Hardware access Handwheel 1 hr_data[1].adr_hr_zaehler 0x0080 #Address Handwheel 2 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 1.17 13 Manual mode parameter
## Page 14

Description of elements 2.1.2.4 Handwheel resolution The number of handwheel increments per handwheel revolution is entered as the handwheel resolution. This parameter must be specified by a numerator and a denominator. NOTICE Handwheel resolution = numerator / denominator = hr_aufl_z/ hr_aufl_n Handwheel resolution unit: [increments/revolution] Do not confuse this handwheel-specific resolution with the axis-specific resolution for handwheel mode [PROG]. 2.1.2.4.1 Handwheel resolution numerator (P-MANU-00005) P-MANU-00005 Handwheel resolution numerator Description This parameter defines the handwheel resolution numerator. Parameter hr_data[i].hr_aufl_z Data type UNS32 Data range 1 ... MAX(UNS32) Dimension increments Default value 0 Remarks 2.1.2.4.2 Handwheel resolution denominator (P-MANU-00006). P-MANU-00006 Handwheel resolution denominator Description The parameter defines the handwheel resolution denominator. Parameter hr_data[i].hr_aufl_n Data type UNS32 Data range 1 ... MAX(UNS32) Dimension U Default value 0 Remarks Parameterisation example: Resolution 100 increments/resolution applies to handwheel ‘1’ and resolution 2700 increments/14 revolutions to handwheel ‘2’. hr_data[0].log_hr_nr 1 #logical handwheel number Handwheel 1 hr_data[0].hr_aufl_z 100 #Handwheel resolution numerator Handwheel 1 hr_data[0].hr_aufl_n 1 # Handwheel resolution denominator Handwheel 1 ……. hr_data[1].log_hr_nr 2 #logical handwheel number Handwheel 2 hr_data[1].hr_aufl_z 2700 #Handwheel resolution numerator Handwheel 2 hr_data[1].hr_aufl_n 14 #Handwheel resolution denominator Handwheel 2 2.1.2.5 Upper limit for handwheel increments (P-MANU-00007) P-MANU-00007 Upper limit for handwheel increments Description This parameter defines the upper limit for the number of handwheel increments read in per cycle. It is a plausibility limit for the handwheel hardware. Parameter hr_data[i].max_inkr_pro_takt Data type UNS32 Data range < MAX(UNS32) Dimension increments 14 Version: 1.17 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Manual mode parameter
## Page 15

Description of elements Default value 0 Remarks Parameterisation example: The maximum number of handwheel increments read in per cycle is 1000. hr_data[0].max_inkr_pro_takt 1000 #Upper limit for handwheel increments 2.1.2.6 Offset on activation (P-MANU-00012) P-MANU-00012 Offset on activation Description This parameter defines whether adoption on the handwheel counter status is absolute or relative when handwheel mode is activated. Parameter hr_data[i].hr_abs_pos_init Data type BOOLEAN Data range 0: Relative adoption of handwheel counter status when handwheel mode is activated. 1: Absolute adoption of handwheel counter status when handwheel mode is activated. Dimension ---- Default value 0 Remarks Relative mode is practical for typical handwheel mode, i.e. there is no path motion, even if the handwheel counter status is not 0 when handwheel mode is activated. 2.1.2.7 Processing handwheel increments (P-MANU-00013) P-MANU-00013 Processing handwheel increments Description This parameter influences the behaviour of handwheel mode when increments (path) are processed. Parameter hr_data[i].mode Data type UNS32 Data range 0: True-path handwheel; all increments generated are carried out. Axis motion may run on depending on the dynamic setting 1: Non true-path handwheel; all generated handwheel increments are cancelled after the handwheel rotation stops (see inching key mode). Axis motion also stops immediately. 2: Conditional true-path handwheel, generated handwheel increments are cancelled if the command velocity of the handwheel was reached before handwheel rotation stops. Note: The maximum velocity of the handwheel (P-AXIS-00213) is weighted with feed override depending on P-CHAN-00186 . (Mode available as of V3.1.3074) Dimension ---- Default value 0 Remarks TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 1.17 15 Manual mode parameter
## Page 16

Description of elements 2.2 Inching key settings 2.2.1 Number of inching key pairs (P-MANU-00008) P-MANU-00008 Number of inching key pairs Description This parameter defines the number of inching key pairs. Parameter tasten_anzahl Data type UNS16 Data range 0 ... 9 (maximum number of inching key pairs, application-specific) Dimension ---- Default value 0 Remarks The number of inching keys must correspond to the elements assigned in the inching key data list 'tasten_data[i]'. Parameterisation example: Two inching key pairs are configured. tasten_anzahl 2 2.2.2 Inching key data (tasten_data[i].*) The structure 'tasten_data[i]' defines the configuration data of existing inching key pairs. Structure name Index tasten_data[i] i = 0 ... 8 (Number of inching key pairs: 9, application-specific) 2.2.2.1 Logical key number (P-MANU-00009) P-MANU-00009 Logical key number Description This parameter defines the logical key number of an inching key pair. The logical key number is unique throughout the entire system. The logical key number is used to assign an activation or deactivation job to the physical inching key pair. The logical key number is also used to assign a physical key pair to a logical axis. Parameter tasten_data[i].log_tasten_nr Data type UNS16 Data range 1 ... MAX(UNS16) Dimension ---- Default value 0 Remarks A logical key number may not be assigned several times. If this is the case, the plausibility check of the manual mode data generates an error message. The logical key number ‘0’ is not permitted. Activating and deactivating manual modes is described in [PROG]. Parameterisation example: Two physical inching key pairs are configured. These are the logical key numbers ‘1’ and ‘2’. tasten_data[0].log_tasten_nr 1 #logical key number Key pair 1 ……. tasten_data[1].log_tasten_nr 2 #logical key number Key pair 2 ……. 16 Version: 1.17 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Manual mode parameter
## Page 17

Description of elements 2.3 Processing feedhold (feedhold.*) The ‘feedhold’ structure defines the processing of read-in handwheel increments and jogging mode motion paths during a feedhold. 2.3.1 Handwheel mode (P-MANU-00010) P-MANU-00010 Handwheel mode Description If the parameter is set to TRUE, the handwheel increments read in during a feedhold are skipped. Otherwise, these handwheel increments are output after feedhold is removed. Parameter feedhold.hr_inkr_verwerfen Data type BOOLEAN Data range 0/1 Dimension ---- Default value 0 Remarks Parameterisation example: Handwheel increments read in during a feedhold should not be skipped. feedhold.hr_inkr_verwerfen 0 #Skip handwheel increments 2.3.2 Jogging mode (P-MANU-00011) P-MANU-00011 Jogging mode Description If the parameter is set to TRUE, jogging mode motion paths generated during feedhold are skipped. Otherwise, these motion paths are output after feedhold is removed. Parameter feedhold.jog_inkr_verwerfen Data type BOOLEAN Data range 0/1 Dimension ---- Default value 0 Remarks Parameterisation example: Jogging mode path motions read in during a feedhold should be skipped. feedhold.jog_inkr_verwerfen 1 #Skip jogging mode motion paths 2.4 Messages at offset limits (P-MANU-00014) P-MANU-00014 Output a message at offset limit Description If this parameter is set to TRUE, the CNC generates a warning if a manual movement stops at a relative offset limit (P-AXIS-00137, P-AXIS-00138) or at an absolute offset limit (P-AXIS-00492, P-AXIS-00493). Parameter move_limit_warning Data type BOOLEAN Data range 0/1 Dimension ---- Default value 0 Remarks This parameter is available as of CNC Build 2.11.2804.12 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 1.17 17 Manual mode parameter
## Page 18

Example of assigning manual mode parameters 3 Example of assigning manual mode parameters # ************************************************************************ # Manual mode data # ************************************************************************ # Important note : Behind the comment character ´#´ # a blank (space) must be added # ************************************************************************ # Number of handwheels ************************************************************************** hr_anzahl 2 ************************************************************************** # Number of inching key pairs ************************************************************************** tasten_anzahl 3 ************************************************************************** # Handwheel data ************************************************************************** hr_data[0].log_hr_nr 1 hr_data[0].hr_aufl_z 100 hr_data[0].hr_aufl_n 1 hr_data[0].hr_zaehler_direct_access 1 hr_data[0].adr_hr_zaehler 0x8a0a0030 hr_data[0].max_inkr_pro_takt 1000 hr_data[0].hr_abs_pos_init 0 # hr_data[1].log_hr_nr 2 hr_data[1].hr_aufl_z 180 hr_data[1].hr_aufl_n 1 hr_data[1].hr_zaehler_direct_access 1 hr_data[1].adr_hr_zaehler 0x8a0a0080 hr_data[1].max_inkr_pro_takt 1000 hr_data[1].hr_abs_pos_init 0 ************************************************************************* # Inching key data ************************************************************************* tasten_data[0].log_tasten_nr 1 # tasten_data[1].log_tasten_nr 2 # tasten_data[2].log_tasten_nr 3 ************************************************************************ # Feedhold processing ************************************************************************ feedhold.hr_inkr_verwerfen 0 feedhold.jog_inkr_verwerfen 1 18 Version: 1.17 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Manual mode parameter
## Page 19

Support and Service 4 Support and Service Beckhoff and their partners around the world offer comprehensive support and service, making available fast and competent assistance with all questions related to Beckhoff products and system solutions. Download finder Our download finder contains all the files that we offer you for downloading. You will find application reports, technical documentation, technical drawings, configuration files and much more. The downloads are available in various formats. Beckhoff's branch offices and representatives Please contact your Beckhoff branch office or representative for local support and service on Beckhoff products! The addresses of Beckhoff's branch offices and representatives round the world can be found on our internet page: www.beckhoff.com You will also find further documentation for Beckhoff components there. Beckhoff Support Support offers you comprehensive technical assistance, helping you not only with the application of individual Beckhoff products, but also with other, wide-ranging services: • support • design, programming and commissioning of complex automation systems • and extensive training program for Beckhoff system components Hotline: +49 5246 963-157 e-mail: support@beckhoff.com Beckhoff Service The Beckhoff Service Center supports you in all matters of after-sales service: • on-site service • repair service • spare parts service • hotline service Hotline: +49 5246 963-460 e-mail: service@beckhoff.com Beckhoff Headquarters Beckhoff Automation Gmb H & Co. KG Huelshorstweg 20 33415 Verl Germany Phone: +49 5246 963-0 e-mail: info@beckhoff.com web: www.beckhoff.com TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Version: 1.17 19 Manual mode parameter
## Page 20

Index Index P P-MANU-00001 11 P-MANU-00002 12 P-MANU-00003 12 P-MANU-00004 13 P-MANU-00005 14 P-MANU-00006 14 P-MANU-00007 14 P-MANU-00008 16 P-MANU-00009 16 P-MANU-00010 17 P-MANU-00011 17 P-MANU-00012 15 P-MANU-00013 15 P-MANU-00014 17 20 Version: 1.17 TF5200 | Twin CAT 3 CNC Manual mode parameter
## Page 22

More Information: www.beckhoff.com/TF5200 Beckhoff Automation Gmb H & Co. KG Hülshorstweg 20 33415 Verl Germany Phone: +49 5246 9630 info@beckhoff.com www.beckhoff.com
