---
title: "TF6000 Twin CAT 3"
product: "TF6000"
category: "Communication"
tags: ["ADS", "CAT", "TWIN"]
language: "EN"
document_type: "Library"
version: "1.1.0"
source_pdf: "https://download.beckhoff.com/download/Document/automation/twincat3/TF6000_TC3_ADS_CommLib_EN.pdf"
release_date: "2025-04-30"
---
Manual | EN TF6000 Twin CAT 3 | ADS Comm Lib 2025-04-30 | Version: 1.1.0
## Page 3

Table of contents Table of contents 1 Foreword.................................................................................................................................................... 5 1.1 Notes on the documentation............................................................................................................. 5 1.2 For your safety.................................................................................................................................. 6 1.3 Notes on information security............................................................................................................ 7 2 Overview.................................................................................................................................................... 8 3 Support and Service............................................................................................................................... 11 TF6000 Version: 1.1.0 3
## Page 4

Table of contents 4 Version: 1.1.0 TF6000
## Page 5

Foreword 1 Foreword 1.1 Notes on the documentation This description is intended exclusively for trained specialists in control and automation technology who are familiar with the applicable national standards. The documentation and the following notes and explanations must be complied with when installing and commissioning the components. The trained specialists must always use the current valid documentation. The trained specialists must ensure that the application and use of the products described is in line with all safety requirements, including all relevant laws, regulations, guidelines, and standards. Disclaimer The documentation has been compiled with care. The products described are, however, constantly under development. We reserve the right to revise and change the documentation at any time and without notice. Claims to modify products that have already been supplied may not be made on the basis of the data, diagrams, and descriptions in this documentation. Trademarks Beckhoff®, Twin CAT®, Twin CAT/BSD®, TC/BSD®, Ether CAT®, Ether CAT G®, Ether CAT G10®, Ether CAT P®, Safety over Ether CAT®, Twin SAFE®, XFC®, XTS®, and XPlanar® are registered and licensed trademarks of Beckhoff Automation Gmb H. If third parties make use of the designations or trademarks contained in this publication for their own purposes, this could infringe upon the rights of the owners of the said designations. Ether CAT® is a registered trademark and patented technology, licensed by Beckhoff Automation Gmb H, Germany Copyright © Beckhoff Automation Gmb H & Co. KG, Germany. The distribution and reproduction of this document, as well as the use and communication of its contents without express authorization, are prohibited. Offenders will be held liable for the payment of damages. All rights reserved in the event that a patent, utility model, or design are registered. Third-party trademarks Trademarks of third parties may be used in this documentation. You can find the trademark notices here: https://www.beckhoff.com/trademarks. TF6000 Version: 1.1.0 5
## Page 6

Foreword 1.2 For your safety Safety regulations Read the following explanations for your safety. Always observe and follow product-specific safety instructions, which you may find at the appropriate places in this document. Exclusion of liability All the components are supplied in particular hardware and software configurations which are appropriate for the application. Modifications to hardware or software configurations other than those described in the documentation are not permitted, and nullify the liability of Beckhoff Automation Gmb H & Co. KG. Personnel qualification This description is only intended for trained specialists in control, automation, and drive technology who are familiar with the applicable national standards. Signal words The signal words used in the documentation are classified below. In order to prevent injury and damage to persons and property, read and follow the safety and warning notices. Personal injury warnings DANGER Hazard with high risk of death or serious injury. WARNING Hazard with medium risk of death or serious injury. CAUTION There is a low-risk hazard that could result in medium or minor injury. Warning of damage to property or environment NOTICE The environment, equipment, or data may be damaged. Information on handling the product This information includes, for example: recommendations for action, assistance or further information on the product. 6 Version: 1.1.0 TF6000
## Page 7

Foreword 1.3 Notes on information security The products of Beckhoff Automation Gmb H & Co. KG (Beckhoff), insofar as they can be accessed online, are equipped with security functions that support the secure operation of plants, systems, machines and networks. Despite the security functions, the creation, implementation and constant updating of a holistic security concept for the operation are necessary to protect the respective plant, system, machine and networks against cyber threats. The products sold by Beckhoff are only part of the overall security concept. The customer is responsible for preventing unauthorized access by third parties to its equipment, systems, machines and networks. The latter should be connected to the corporate network or the Internet only if appropriate protective measures have been set up. In addition, the recommendations from Beckhoff regarding appropriate protective measures should be observed. Further information regarding information security and industrial security can be found in our https://www.beckhoff.com/secguide. Beckhoff products and solutions undergo continuous further development. This also applies to security functions. In light of this continuous further development, Beckhoff expressly recommends that the products are kept up to date at all times and that updates are installed for the products once they have been made available. Using outdated or unsupported product versions can increase the risk of cyber threats. To stay informed about information security for Beckhoff products, subscribe to the RSS feed at https:// www.beckhoff.com/secinfo. TF6000 Version: 1.1.0 7
## Page 8

Overview 2 Overview The "TF6000 Twin CAT 3 ADS Communication Library" is delivered with the Twin CAT installation. It enables you to develop your own applications (e.g. visualizations, measured value acquisition) that can communicate with Twin CAT devices (e.g. PLC, NC, or IO devices). Alternatively, our free TC1000 | Twin CAT 3 ADS setup provides you with the libraries and the ADS router if you just require ADS functions. Components of the "Twin CAT ADS API" Following successful installation, the components can be found in the "..\Twin CAT\Ads Api" directory . ADS libraries are available for the following target systems and technologies: Windows (32-bit/64-bit) Windows CE Web service 8 Version: 1.1.0 TF6000
## Page 9

Overview Windows (32-bit/64-bit) Name Programming Operating Description Path Reference Samples language / system technology Twin CAT. Ads . NET (C#, Windows ADS. NET Nu Get Link C# .dll VB . Net) 10/11 components for or the different versions of .. the . NET \Twin CAT\Ads Api framework (1.0 / \. NET 1.1 / 2.0 / 4.0) Twin CAT. Ads . NET (C#, Windows . Net Framework Nu Get Reactive VB . Net) 10/11 >= . NET 4.6 or Extensions .. \Twin CAT\Ads Api \. NET Tc Ads Dll C/C++ Windows The ADS .. Link C++ 10/11 components \Twin CAT\Ads Api (DLL / Header / \Tc Ads Dll Library) for creating C/C++ applications Ads Ocx VB, VBA, Windows The ADS OCX is .. COM 10/11 implemented as \Twin CAT\Ads Api an Active X \Ads Ocx control element, and is based on Microsoft's COM technology. Ads To Java Java Windows Tc Java To Ads.jar .. 10/11 library, which \Twin CAT\Ads Api uses the \Ads To Java Ads To Java.dll- Wrapper for x86 and x64 systems. Twin CAT Power Shell Windows .. ADS 10/11 \Twin CAT\Ads Api Management \Powershell (Tc Xae Mgmt) module TF6000 Version: 1.1.0 9
## Page 10

Overview Windows CE Name Programming Operating Description Path Reference Samples language / system technology Twin CAT. Ads . NET Windows CE ADS. NET .. Link .dll Windows CE components for \Twin CAT\Ads Api the different \. NET\Compact Fr versions of amework the . NET Compact framework (1.0 / 2.0) for Windows CE Tc Ads Dll Ce C/C++ Windows CE CE-based ADS .. Link installations (cab \Twin CAT\Ads Api files) for use in \Tc Ads Dll\CE CE with the headers and libraries for the different CE platforms Web service Name Programming Operating Description Path Reference Samples language / system technology Tc Ads Wcf . NET, HTML, Windows Windows .. Link C# Java Script 10/11 Communications \Twin CAT\Ads Api Foundation \Tc Ads Wcf (WCF) - web service that is part of the . NET Framework. Tc Ads Web Se HTML, Windows Extension for the .. Link Java Script rvice Java Script 10/11 Internet \Twin CAT\Ads Api Information \Tc Ads Web Servic Server (IIS) e Further information: ADS introduction 10 Version: 1.1.0 TF6000
## Page 11

Support and Service 3 Support and Service Beckhoff and their partners around the world offer comprehensive support and service, making available fast and competent assistance with all questions related to Beckhoff products and system solutions. Download finder Our download finder contains all the files that we offer you for downloading. You will find application reports, technical documentation, technical drawings, configuration files and much more. The downloads are available in various formats. Beckhoff's branch offices and representatives Please contact your Beckhoff branch office or representative for local support and service on Beckhoff products! The addresses of Beckhoff's branch offices and representatives round the world can be found on our internet page: www.beckhoff.com You will also find further documentation for Beckhoff components there. Beckhoff Support Support offers you comprehensive technical assistance, helping you not only with the application of individual Beckhoff products, but also with other, wide-ranging services: • support • design, programming and commissioning of complex automation systems • and extensive training program for Beckhoff system components Hotline: +49 5246 963-157 e-mail: support@beckhoff.com Beckhoff Service The Beckhoff Service Center supports you in all matters of after-sales service: • on-site service • repair service • spare parts service • hotline service Hotline: +49 5246 963-460 e-mail: service@beckhoff.com Beckhoff Headquarters Beckhoff Automation Gmb H & Co. KG Huelshorstweg 20 33415 Verl Germany Phone: +49 5246 963-0 e-mail: info@beckhoff.com web: www.beckhoff.com TF6000 Version: 1.1.0 11
## Page 12

Trademark statements Beckhoff®, Twin CAT®, Twin CAT/BSD®, TC/BSD®, Ether CAT®, Ether CAT G®, Ether CAT G10®, Ether CAT P®, Safety over Ether CAT®, Twin SAFE®, XFC®, XTS® and XPlanar® are registered trademarks of and licensed by Beckhoff Automation Gmb H. Third-party trademark statements Microsoft, Microsoft Azure, Microsoft Edge, Power Shell, Visual Studio, Windows and Xbox are trademarks of the Microsoft group of companies.
## Page 13

More Information: www.beckhoff.com/tf6000 Beckhoff Automation Gmb H & Co. KG Hülshorstweg 20 33415 Verl Germany Phone: +49 5246 9630 info@beckhoff.com www.beckhoff.com
