---
title: "TF8330 Twin CAT 3"
product: "TF8330"
category: "Building_Automation"
tags: ["CAT", "TWIN"]
language: "EN"
document_type: "Manual"
version: "0.1.0"
source_pdf: "https://download.beckhoff.com/download/Document/automation/twincat3/TF8330_TC3_Power_Collector_EN.pdf"
release_date: "2025-09-29"
---
Manual | EN TF8330 Twin CAT 3 | Power Collector 2025-09-29 | Version: 0.1.0
## Page 3

Table of contents Table of contents 1 Foreword.................................................................................................................................................... 5 1.1 Notes on the documentation............................................................................................................. 5 1.2 For your safety.................................................................................................................................. 6 1.3 Notes on information security............................................................................................................ 7 1.4 Documentation issue status.............................................................................................................. 8 2 Overview.................................................................................................................................................... 9 3 Functions................................................................................................................................................. 10 3.1 Measure.......................................................................................................................................... 10 3.1.1 Measurement data........................................................................................................... 11 3.1.2 Naming............................................................................................................................. 12 3.1.3 Diagnostic data................................................................................................................ 13 4 Installation............................................................................................................................................... 14 4.1 System Requirements..................................................................................................................... 14 4.2 Installation....................................................................................................................................... 14 4.3 Licensing......................................................................................................................................... 14 5 Modules.................................................................................................................................................... 17 5.1 Tc Power Measure EL3443................................................................................................................ 17 5.1.1 Function........................................................................................................................... 17 5.1.2 Module............................................................................................................................. 17 5.1.3 Context............................................................................................................................. 17 5.1.4 Data Areas........................................................................................................................ 18 5.1.5 Parameter........................................................................................................................ 18 5.1.6 Interfaces......................................................................................................................... 19 5.1.7 Application........................................................................................................................ 19 5.2 Tc Power Measure EL3453................................................................................................................ 30 5.2.1 Function........................................................................................................................... 31 5.2.2 Module............................................................................................................................. 31 5.2.3 Context............................................................................................................................. 31 5.2.4 Data Areas........................................................................................................................ 31 5.2.5 Parameter........................................................................................................................ 33 5.2.6 Interfaces......................................................................................................................... 33 5.2.7 Application........................................................................................................................ 34 6 Appendix.................................................................................................................................................. 45 6.1 Data types....................................................................................................................................... 45 6.1.1 STc Power Measure Diag................................................................................................... 45 6.1.2 STc Power Measure Voltage.............................................................................................. 45 6.1.3 STc Power Measure Current............................................................................................... 46 6.1.4 STc Power Measure Frequency.......................................................................................... 47 6.1.5 STc Power Measure Power................................................................................................ 47 6.1.6 STc Power Measure Fundamentals.................................................................................... 48 6.1.7 STc Power Measure Harmonics......................................................................................... 49 6.1.8 STc Power Measure Distortion........................................................................................... 50 6.2 Support and Service........................................................................................................................ 52 TF8330 Version: 0.1.0 3
## Page 4

Table of contents 4 Version: 0.1.0 TF8330
## Page 5

Foreword 1 Foreword 1.1 Notes on the documentation This description is intended exclusively for trained specialists in control and automation technology who are familiar with the applicable national standards. The documentation and the following notes and explanations must be complied with when installing and commissioning the components. The trained specialists must always use the current valid documentation. The trained specialists must ensure that the application and use of the products described is in line with all safety requirements, including all relevant laws, regulations, guidelines, and standards. Disclaimer The documentation has been compiled with care. The products described are, however, constantly under development. We reserve the right to revise and change the documentation at any time and without notice. Claims to modify products that have already been supplied may not be made on the basis of the data, diagrams, and descriptions in this documentation. Trademarks Beckhoff®, ATRO® , Ether CAT®, Ether CAT G®, Ether CAT G10®, Ether CAT P®, MX-System®, Safety over Ether CAT®, TC/BSD®, Twin CAT®, Twin CAT/BSD®, Twin SAFE®, XFC®, XPlanar®, and XTS® are registered and licensed trademarks of Beckhoff Automation Gmb H. If third parties make use of the designations or trademarks contained in this publication for their own purposes, this could infringe upon the rights of the owners of the said designations. Ether CAT® is a registered trademark and patented technology, licensed by Beckhoff Automation Gmb H, Germany. Copyright © Beckhoff Automation Gmb H & Co. KG, Germany. The distribution and reproduction of this document, as well as the use and communication of its contents without express authorization, are prohibited. Offenders will be held liable for the payment of damages. All rights reserved in the event that a patent, utility model, or design are registered. Third-party trademarks Trademarks of third parties may be used in this documentation. You can find the trademark notices here: https://www.beckhoff.com/trademarks. TF8330 Version: 0.1.0 5
## Page 6

Foreword 1.2 For your safety Safety regulations Read the following explanations for your safety. Always observe and follow product-specific safety instructions, which you may find at the appropriate places in this document. Exclusion of liability All the components are supplied in particular hardware and software configurations which are appropriate for the application. Modifications to hardware or software configurations other than those described in the documentation are not permitted, and nullify the liability of Beckhoff Automation Gmb H & Co. KG. Personnel qualification This description is only intended for trained specialists in control, automation, and drive technology who are familiar with the applicable national standards. Signal words The signal words used in the documentation are classified below. In order to prevent injury and damage to persons and property, read and follow the safety and warning notices. Personal injury warnings DANGER Hazard with high risk of death or serious injury. WARNING Hazard with medium risk of death or serious injury. CAUTION There is a low-risk hazard that could result in medium or minor injury. Warning of damage to property or environment NOTICE The environment, equipment, or data may be damaged. Information on handling the product This information includes, for example: recommendations for action, assistance or further information on the product. 6 Version: 0.1.0 TF8330
## Page 7

Foreword 1.3 Notes on information security The products of Beckhoff Automation Gmb H & Co. KG (Beckhoff), insofar as they can be accessed online, are equipped with security functions that support the secure operation of plants, systems, machines and networks. Despite the security functions, the creation, implementation and constant updating of a holistic security concept for the operation are necessary to protect the respective plant, system, machine and networks against cyber threats. The products sold by Beckhoff are only part of the overall security concept. The customer is responsible for preventing unauthorized access by third parties to its equipment, systems, machines and networks. The latter should be connected to the corporate network or the Internet only if appropriate protective measures have been set up. In addition, the recommendations from Beckhoff regarding appropriate protective measures should be observed. Further information regarding information security and industrial security can be found in our https://www.beckhoff.com/secguide. Beckhoff products and solutions undergo continuous further development. This also applies to security functions. In light of this continuous further development, Beckhoff expressly recommends that the products are kept up to date at all times and that updates are installed for the products once they have been made available. Using outdated or unsupported product versions can increase the risk of cyber threats. To stay informed about information security for Beckhoff products, subscribe to the RSS feed at https:// www.beckhoff.com/secinfo. TF8330 Version: 0.1.0 7
## Page 8

Foreword 1.4 Documentation issue status Version Changes 0.1.0 First release with TF8330 in version 0.1.0 8 Version: 0.1.0 TF8330
## Page 9

Overview 2 Overview The Twin CAT 3 Power Functions provide software in the form of Twin CAT modules for use in electrical power systems. These are divided into three Twin CAT Functions with corresponding licenses: • TF8330 | Twin CAT 3 Power Collector Functions for power measurement using Ether CAT Terminals of the EL34xx series. • TF8350 | Twin CAT 3 Power Technologies Functions for power measurement using Ether CAT Terminals of the EL37x3 and ELM3xxx series. • TF8360 | Twin CAT 3 Power Control Functions for the control of power generating plants. TF8330 Version: 0.1.0 9
## Page 10

Functions 3 Functions The TF8330 | Twin CAT 3 Power Collector offers modular software blocks for power measurement. These modules provide a standardized interface for all EL34xx series power measurement terminals. Key parameters such as conversion ratio and frequency range can be configured automatically. 3.1 Measure The Twin CAT modules in the Twin CAT Power Collector of the Measure group interact with Ether CAT power measurement terminals of the EL34xx series and handle both their configuration and the acquisition of measurement data. The focus is on measuring the three phase voltages against neutral conductor and the three phase currents in a star connection. Co E parameters are automatically set according to the module parameters via SDO communication. Measured values are read out via PDOs, variant handling and, if necessary, additional SDO communication. The recorded data is structured and made available for further processing in the system via defined Data Areas. • PDO (Process Data Objects) PDOs are used for fast, cyclic data exchange between the Ether CAT Terminal and the Twin CAT module. These transmit current measured values (e.g. current, voltage, power). • SDO (Service Data Objects) SDOs enable acyclic access to parameters and internal process data of the Ether CAT Terminal. They are used to configure the Ether CAT Terminal (e.g. setting converter ratios) and to read out non-cyclic and extensive process data (e.g. harmonics), which should not be transmitted via PDOs due to their data volume or low update rate. • Co E (CANopen over Ether CAT) Co E maps the communication between Twin CAT and the Ether CAT Terminal. It defines a standardized object dictionary that enables access to all parameters, states and data objects of the device via PDO and SDO. • Variant handling The EL34x3 terminals support so-called variant handling. Different measured variables can be output via dedicated variant PDOs. The respective measured variable is selected via a multiplexing technique that uses selectors. This method allows the sequential reading of values (e.g. power components of the fundamental) that do not have to be transmitted cyclically. PDOs ensure cyclic data exchange, while SDOs and variant handling are suitable for slower updated measured values and large amounts of data. Depending on the configuration and selection of process data, the modules use a combination of PDOs, SDOs and variant handling to record all process data. This ensures low utilization of cyclic communication via Ether CAT, while at the same time ensuring complete and timely acquisition of all measurement data. The following is an overview of supported terminals and the corresponding modules: Terminal Module EL3443 Tc Power Measure EL3443 [} 17] EL3453 Tc Power Measure EL3453 [} 30] EL3444 Tc Power Measure EL3444 (follows with version 0.1.1) EL3446 Tc Power Measure EL3446 (follows with version 0.1.1) … Further modules of the Measure group for Ether CAT Terminals of the EL37x3 and ELM3xxx series can be found in the documentation for TF8350 | Twin CAT 3 Power Technologies. 10 Version: 0.1.0 TF8330
## Page 11

Functions 3.1.1 Measurement data Each module of the Measure group provides the recorded measurement data as output process data via a defined Data Area. The measurement data is divided into logically separate structures, which can be individually enabled or disabled as required under Data Area in the Enable column. When starting up, the module automatically recognizes the activated structures and only reads the relevant measured values from the Ether CAT Terminal. Each of these structures begins with a timestamp (Timestamp), which indicates the time of the last update in distributed clocks time (DC time). This is followed by the diagnostic structure (Diag), which contains status information such as when measuring ranges are exceeded or not reached. This is followed by the actual measurement data, which can be divided into further substructures, for example to distinguish between phase-neutral (LN) and phase-phase voltages (LL). TF8330 Version: 0.1.0 11
## Page 12

Functions By default, the measured values are output as RMS values per phase and as a total value across all three phases. They are expressed in SI units (e.g. Volt, Ampere, Watt) as floating-point numbers with single precision according to IEEE 754. The following is an overview of the data types for corresponding structures: Name Data type Description Diag STc Power Measure Diag [} 45] General state of the measurement. Voltage STc Power Measure Voltage Area [} 45] Measured voltages for all three phases as phase-neutral and phase-phase values. Current STc Power Measure Current Area [} 46] Measured currents for all three phases, as well as error and neutral currents. Frequency STc Power Measure Frequency Area [} 47] Determined frequency and frequency changes (Ro Co F) and their filtered values. Power STc Power Measure Power Area [} 47] Determined active, reactive and apparent power. Fundamentals STc Power Measure Fundamentals Area Determined voltage, current and power components of the fundamental. [} 48] Harmonics STc Power Measure Harmonics Area [} 49] Determined harmonics of the three voltage and current phases. Distortion STc Power Measure Distortion Area [} 50] Determined harmonic distortion (THD and TDD) of the three voltage and current phases. 3.1.2 Naming In the measurement data, electrical variables are labeled with a uniform naming convention. These are based on the usual parameters in three-phase systems. 12 Version: 0.1.0 TF8330
## Page 13

Functions Phases • L1, L2, L3: Individually considered conductors (phases). Voltages • U1N, U2N, U3N: Phase-to-phase voltages against neutral conductor. • U123N: Voltage of the three-phase system (mean value). • U12, U23, U31: Conductor voltages between two outer conductors. • U123: Voltage of the three-phase system (mean value). Currents • I1, I2, I3: Currents of the individual conductors. • I123: Total current of the system (mean value). Power • P1, P2, P3: Active power per phase. • P123: Total active power of the system. Similarly, Q1/Q123 for reactive power and S1/S123 for apparent power. 3.1.3 Diagnostic data There is a structure and diagnostic information for each structure of measurement data. It specifies the following typical states. Inaccurate The Inaccurate state indicates an inaccurate measurement, for example if the measured values are below the specified measuring accuracy. This accuracy is defined as a parameter and is referred to as Threshold. Overvoltage/Overcurrent The states Overvoltage and Overcurrent indicate that the measured voltage or current exceeds the permissible measuring range of the Ether CAT Terminal. TF8330 Version: 0.1.0 13
## Page 14

Installation 4 Installation 4.1 System Requirements Engineering (XAE) Technical data Requirements Operating system Windows 10, Windows 11 Target platform x64 Twin CAT version Build 4026 Required Twin CAT license Runtime (XAR) Technical data Requirements Operating system Windows, Beckhoff RT Linux®, Twin CAT/BSD Target platform x64 Twin CAT version Build 4026 Required Twin CAT license TF8330 4.2 Installation Twin CAT Package Manager: Installation (Twin CAT 3.1 Build 4026) Detailed instructions on installing products can be found in the chapter Installing workloads in the Twin CAT 3.1 Build 4026 installation instructions. Install the following workload to be able to use the product: Twin CAT Package Manager UI: • TF8330 | Twin CAT 3 Power Collector Twin CAT Package Manager CLI: • Tc Pkg install TF8330. Power Collector. XAE 4.3 Licensing The Twin CAT 3 function can be activated as a full version or as a 7-day test version. Both license types can be activated via the Twin CAT 3 development environment (XAE). Licensing the full version of a Twin CAT 3 Function A description of the procedure to license a full version can be found in the Beckhoff Information System in the documentation "Twin CAT 3 Licensing". Licensing the 7-day test version of a Twin CAT 3 Function A 7-day test version cannot be enabled for a Twin CAT 3 license dongle. 1. Start the Twin CAT 3 development environment (XAE). 2. Open an existing Twin CAT 3 project or create a new project. 14 Version: 0.1.0 TF8330
## Page 15

Installation 3. If you want to activate the license for a remote device, set the desired target system. To do this, select the target system from the Choose Target System drop-down list in the toolbar. ð The licensing settings always refer to the selected target system. When the project is activated on the target system, the corresponding Twin CAT 3 licenses are automatically copied to this system. 4. In the Solution Explorer, double-click License in the SYSTEM subtree. ð The Twin CAT 3 license manager opens. 5. Open the Manage Licenses tab. In the Add License column, check the check box for the license you want to add to your project (e.g. "TF4100 TC3 Controller Toolbox"). 6. Open the Order Information (Runtime) tab. ð In the tabular overview of licenses, the previously selected license is displayed with the status “missing”. TF8330 Version: 0.1.0 15
## Page 16

Installation 7. Click 7-Day Trial License... to activate the 7-day trial license. ð A dialog box opens, prompting you to enter the security code displayed in the dialog. 8. Enter the code exactly as it is displayed and confirm the entry. 9. Confirm the subsequent dialog, which indicates the successful activation. ð In the tabular overview of licenses, the license status now indicates the expiry date of the license. 10. Restart the Twin CAT system. ð The 7-day trial version is enabled. 16 Version: 0.1.0 TF8330
## Page 17

Modules 5 Modules 5.1 Tc Power Measure EL3443 The Tc Power Measure EL3443 module supports all Ether CAT Terminals of type EL3443 as well as their variants such as EL3443-0010, EL3443-0013 or EL3443-0020 from firmware version 12. The specific properties of the terminals are abstracted and provided via a standardized interface. Detailed information on the functionality and technical details of the EL3443 can be found in the corresponding documentation. See EL34xx. 5.1.1 Function The Tc Power Measure EL3443 is integrated into the system as a Tc COM object and executed cyclically via a task (see Context [} 17]). It takes the measurement data from an EL3443 and makes it available as a Data Area (see Data Areas [} 18]) for downstream processes. A data exchange using PDOs, SDOs and variant handling is used for this (see Function/Measure [} 10]). 5.1.2 Module License A valid TF8330 | Twin CAT Power Collector license is required for permanent operation of the module. Alternatively, a 7-day trial license can be used for testing or evaluation (see Licensing [} 14]). 5.1.3 Context Under Context, select the task under which the module is to be executed. For Tc Power Measure EL3443, the use of a task with a cycle time between 1 ms and 10 ms is recommended. Even if the EL3443 only provides new measured values every 10 ms (corresponding to each half-wave), a longer cycle time can still speed up the asynchronous querying of process data via variant handling and SDO communication. TF8330 Version: 0.1.0 17
## Page 18

Modules 5.1.4 Data Areas The inputs and outputs of the process data are configured in the Data Areas of the module. The areas Inputs and Outputs contain the structures for exchanging the process data (PDOs) with the Ether CAT Terminal, while the determined measured values are provided in the Measures area (see Measurement data [} 11]). For different use cases, the EL3443 offers the option of exchanging various process data objects (PDOs) cyclically. The configuration can be used to define which measured values are transmitted cyclically as PDOs and which are transmitted acyclically as SDOs. In order to map this behavior in the Twin CAT modules, the process data used can also be specifically selected there. Typical use cases are already available in the module as predefined PDO sets. This also enables automated mapping of the process data between the Ether CAT Terminal and the Twin CAT module. The following table provides an overview of the predefined PDO sets of the Ether CAT Terminal with the corresponding Data Areas in the Twin CAT module: Data Areas PDOs Use case Default Default Cyclic recording of voltage, current and power measurement. Variant Default + Variant Use variant handling instead of SDOs for extended measurement data. Distributed Default + Variant Values + DPM For combination with EL3444 and EL3446 using Distributed Power Measurement (DPM) 5.1.5 Parameter The parameters in Tc Power Measure EL3443 are used to configure the Ether CAT Terminal and to set internal evaluations. Settings Name Data type Default Unit Description Voltage Ratio REAL 1.0 Factor for scaling the voltage. Voltage Inaccurate REAL 0.3 % Threshold value of the voltage for Threshold detecting inaccuracies. Voltage Inaccurate ETc Power Inaccurate Flag Only Flag Only: Display only Mode Mode Set Zero: Measured values to 0 Current Ratio REAL 1.0 Factor for scaling the current. Current Range Current Range 1 A A Measuring range for current. Current Inaccurate REAL 0.3 % Threshold value of the current for Threshold detecting inaccuracies. Current Inaccurate ETc Power Inaccurate Flag Only Flag Only: Display only Mode Mode Set Zero: Measured values to 0 Frequency Range Frequency Range 45_65Hz Hz Range for determining the frequency. Frequency Source Frequency Source L123_PT2 Source and function for determining the frequency. Frequency Filter Time1 REAL 0.1 s Time constant of the first frequency filter. Frequency Filter Time2 REAL 0.5 s Time constant of the second frequency filter. Disable Guarding BOOL FALSE Switches off the Guarding function of the terminal. 18 Version: 0.1.0 TF8330
## Page 19

Modules 5.1.6 Interfaces In addition to the typical Tc COM interfaces, the Tc Power Measure EL34x3 modules offer two specific interfaces for supplementary modules. ITc Power Measure Using the ITc Power Measure interface, downstream modules can reference the measure process data directly and in a structured manner without the need for additional mapping (see Measurement data [} 11]). ITc Power Input DPM The interface ITc Power Input DPM enables the use of Distributed Power Measurement (DPM) by providing the measured voltages for downstream modules without the need for additional mapping. Modules such as Tc Power Measure EL3444 and Tc Power Measure EL3446 can access the DPM process data via this interface and transmit it to the associated Ether CAT Terminals. These terminals only record currents and receive the required voltage information via the DPM data to determine power and other measured variables. 5.1.7 Application The following section provides instructions on how to integrate the Tc Power Measure EL3443 into a Twin CAT project and connect it to a EL3443 in order to use the module in the application. 1. Add a new module at Tc COM Objects by right-clicking and Add New Item…. TF8330 Version: 0.1.0 19
## Page 20

Modules 2. Use Search of EL3443 to select the Tc Power Measure EL3443 module. Enter a name and click on OK . 20 Version: 0.1.0 TF8330
## Page 21

Modules 3. Assign a task to the module at Context. TF8330 Version: 0.1.0 21
## Page 22

Modules 4. At Data Area, select the desired and related data areas using the checkbox in the Enable column. 22 Version: 0.1.0 TF8330
## Page 23

Modules 5. Under I/O Devices, select the EL3443 and select DC-Synchron as the Operation Mode via the DC tab. TF8330 Version: 0.1.0 23
## Page 24

Modules 6. Under Process Data, select the process data using the Predefined PDO Assignment according to the previously selected inputs/outputs (see Data Areas [} 31]). 24 Version: 0.1.0 TF8330
## Page 25

Modules 7. Under the Plc tab, activate Create PLC Data Type without using Per Channel, then click on Link To PLC…. TF8330 Version: 0.1.0 25
## Page 26

Modules 8. Under Link To PLC…, select the module you created earlier and click OK to establish the link between the terminal and the module. If the module is not listed, the PDO configuration of the terminal does not match the process data of the module (see Data Areas [} 31]). 26 Version: 0.1.0 TF8330
## Page 27

Modules 9. In addition, link the Ether CAT diagnostic information from Wc State, Ec State and Ams Addr between the module and terminal as follows. TF8330 Version: 0.1.0 27
## Page 28

Modules 28 Version: 0.1.0 TF8330
## Page 29

Modules 10. At Data Area of the module, the desired measurement data can be activated at Measures via the checkbox Enable (see Measurement data [} 11]). TF8330 Version: 0.1.0 29
## Page 30

Modules 11. The desired settings for the module, terminal and data processing can be made at Parameter (Init) of the module. 12. This configuration is executed by Activate Configuration and starting Twin CAT on a target system. The b Valid under the Measure Data Area in the Diag structure can be used to quickly identify valid measurement data. Otherwise, the messages from Twin CAT should be checked in the Output window. 5.2 Tc Power Measure EL3453 The Tc Power Measure EL3453 module supports all Ether CAT Terminals of type EL3453 as well as their variants such as EL3453-0020 or EL3453-0100 from firmware version 12. The specific properties of the terminals are abstracted and provided via a standardized interface. 30 Version: 0.1.0 TF8330
## Page 31

Modules Detailed information on the functionality and technical details of the EL3453 can be found in the corresponding documentation. See EL34xx. 5.2.1 Function The Tc Power Measure EL3453 is integrated into the system as a Tc COM object and executed cyclically via a task (see Context [} 31]). It takes the measurement data from an EL3453 and makes it available as a Data Area (see Data Areas [} 31]) for downstream processes. A data exchange using PDOs, SDOs and variant handling is used for this (see Function/Measure [} 10]). 5.2.2 Module License A valid TF8330 | Twin CAT Power Collector license is required for permanent operation of the module. Alternatively, a 7-day trial license can be used for testing or evaluation (see Licensing [} 14]). 5.2.3 Context Under Context, select the task under which the module is to be executed. For Tc Power Measure EL3453, the use of a task with a cycle time between 1 ms and 10 ms is recommended. Even if the EL3453 only provides new measured values every 10 ms (corresponding to each half-wave), a longer cycle time can still speed up the asynchronous querying of process data via variant handling and SDO communication. 5.2.4 Data Areas The inputs and outputs of the process data are configured in the Data Areas of the module. The areas Inputs and Outputs contain the structures for exchanging the process data (PDOs) with the Ether CAT Terminal, while the determined measured values are provided in the Measures area (see Measurement data [} 11]). For different use cases, the EL3453 offers the option of exchanging various process data objects (PDOs) cyclically. The configuration can be used to define which measured values are transmitted cyclically as PDOs and which are transmitted acyclically as SDOs. In order to map this behavior in the Twin CAT modules, the process data used can also be specifically selected there. Typical use cases are already available in the module as predefined PDO sets. This also enables automated mapping of the process data between the Ether CAT Terminal and the Twin CAT module. TF8330 Version: 0.1.0 31
## Page 32

Modules The following table provides an overview of the predefined PDO sets of the Ether CAT Terminal with the corresponding Data Areas in the Twin CAT module: Data Areas PDOs Use case Default Default Cyclic recording of voltage, current and power measurement. Variant Default + Variant Use variant handling instead of SDOs for extended measurement data. Distributed DPM For combination with EL3444 and EL3446 using Distributed Power Measurement (DPM) 5.2.4.1 Control PDOs Fast acquisition of active power, reactive power and frequency is required for use of the Tc Power Measure EL3453 in combination with the Tc Power Plant Control from the TF8360 | Twin CAT Power Control. Specific process data objects (PDOs) are used to enable the determination of the inductive or capacitive reactive power component of the fundamental in particular. A separate process data image is defined for this. The following PDOs must be configured in the EL3453 for this purpose: • Inputs ◦ 0x1A00 L1 Status ◦ 0x1A01 L1 Basic ◦ 0x1A02 L1 Power ◦ 0x1A03 L1 Power Fundamental ◦ 0x1A0C L2 Status ◦ 0x1A0D L2 Basic ◦ 0x1A0E L2 Power ◦ 0x1A0F L2 Power Fundamental ◦ 0x1A18 L3 Status ◦ 0x1A19 L3 Basic ◦ 0x1A1A L3 Power ◦ 0x1A1B L3 Power Fundamental 32 Version: 0.1.0 TF8330
## Page 33

Modules ◦ 0x1A24 Total Status ◦ 0x1A25 Total Basic ◦ 0x1A2D Total L-L Voltage ◦ 0x1A2E Total Variant Value In • Outputs ◦ 0x1600 Total Variant Value Out 5.2.5 Parameter The parameters in Tc Power Measure EL3453 are used to configure the Ether CAT Terminal and to set internal evaluations. Settings Name Data type Default Unit Description Voltage Ratio REAL 1.0 Factor for scaling the voltage. Voltage Inaccurate REAL 0.3 % Threshold value of the voltage Threshold for detecting inaccuracies. Voltage Inaccurate ETc Power Inaccurate Flag Only Flag Only: Display only Mode Mode Set Zero: Measured values to 0 Current Ratio REAL 1.0 Factor for scaling the current. Current Range Current Range 1 A A Measuring range for current. Current Inaccurate REAL 0.3 % Threshold value of the current Threshold for detecting inaccuracies. Current Inaccurate ETc Power Inaccurate Flag Only Flag Only: Display only Mode Mode Set Zero: Measured values to 0 Neutral Current Ratio REAL 1.0 Factor for scaling the neutral current. Neutral Current Range Neutral Current Range 1 A A Measuring range for the neutral current. Frequency Range Frequency Range 45_65Hz Hz Range for determining the frequency. Frequency Source Frequency Source L123_PT2 Source and function for determining the frequency. Frequency Filter Time1 REAL 0.1 s Time constant of the first frequency filter. Frequency Filter Time2 REAL 0.5 s Time constant of the second frequency filter. Disable Guarding BOOL FALSE Switches off the Guarding function of the terminal. 5.2.6 Interfaces In addition to the typical Tc COM interfaces, the Tc Power Measure EL34x3 modules offer two specific interfaces for supplementary modules. ITc Power Measure Using the ITc Power Measure interface, downstream modules can reference the measure process data directly and in a structured manner without the need for additional mapping (see Measurement data [} 11]). ITc Power Input DPM The interface ITc Power Input DPM enables the use of Distributed Power Measurement (DPM) by providing the measured voltages for downstream modules without the need for additional mapping. TF8330 Version: 0.1.0 33
## Page 34

Modules Modules such as Tc Power Measure EL3444 and Tc Power Measure EL3446 can access the DPM process data via this interface and transmit it to the associated Ether CAT Terminals. These terminals only record currents and receive the required voltage information via the DPM data to determine power and other measured variables. 5.2.7 Application The following section provides instructions on how to integrate the Tc Power Measure EL3453 into a Twin CAT project and connect it to a EL3453 in order to use the module in the application. 1. Add a new module at Tc COM Objects by right-clicking and Add New Item…. 34 Version: 0.1.0 TF8330
## Page 35

Modules 2. Use Search of EL3453 to select the Tc Power Measure EL3453 module. Enter a name and click on OK. TF8330 Version: 0.1.0 35
## Page 36

Modules 3. Assign a task to the module at Context. 36 Version: 0.1.0 TF8330
## Page 37

Modules 4. At Data Area, select the desired and related data areas using the checkbox in the Enable column. TF8330 Version: 0.1.0 37
## Page 38

Modules 5. Under I/O Devices, select the EL3453 and select DC-Synchron as the Operation Mode via the DC tab. 38 Version: 0.1.0 TF8330
## Page 39

Modules 6. Under Process Data, select the process data using the Predefined PDO Assignment according to the previously selected inputs/outputs (see Data Areas [} 31]). TF8330 Version: 0.1.0 39
## Page 40

Modules 7. Under the Plc tab, activate Create PLC Data Type without using Per Channel, then click on Link To PLC…. 40 Version: 0.1.0 TF8330
## Page 41

Modules 8. Under Link To PLC…, select the module you created earlier and click OK to establish the link between the terminal and the module. If the module is not listed, the PDO configuration of the terminal does not match the process data of the module (see Data Areas [} 31]). TF8330 Version: 0.1.0 41
## Page 42

Modules 9. In addition, link the Ether CAT diagnostic information from Wc State, Ec State and Ams Addr between the module and terminal as follows. 42 Version: 0.1.0 TF8330
## Page 43

Modules 10. At Data Area of the module, the desired measurement data can be activated at Measures via the checkbox Enable (see Measurement data [} 11]). TF8330 Version: 0.1.0 43
## Page 44

Modules 11. The desired settings for the module, terminal and data processing can be made at Parameter (Init) of the module. 12. This configuration is executed by Activate Configuration and starting Twin CAT on a target system. The b Valid under the Measure Data Area in the Diag structure can be used to quickly identify valid measurement data. Otherwise, the messages from Twin CAT should be checked in the Output window. 44 Version: 0.1.0 TF8330
## Page 45

Appendix 6 Appendix 6.1 Data types 6.1.1 STc Power Measure Diag The STc Power Measure Diag structure displays general information on the state of the measurement data. Name Data type Unit Description b Valid BOOL Measurements are available and valid. 6.1.2 STc Power Measure Voltage The structures STc Power Measure Voltage Diag, STc Power Measure Voltage Values LN and STc Power Measure Voltage Values LL represent measurement data of the voltage and are summarized in the STc Power Measure Voltage Area structure. STc Power Measure Voltage Diag State of voltage measurement. See also Diagnostic data [} 13]. Name Data type Description b Inaccurate L1 BIT Inaccurate voltage phase L1. b Inaccurate L2 BIT Inaccurate voltage phase L2. b Inaccurate L3 BIT Inaccurate voltage phase L3. b Overvoltage L1 BIT Overvoltage phase L1. b Overvoltage L2 BIT Overvoltage phase L2. b Overvoltage L3 BIT Overvoltage phase L3. b Reverse Direction BIT Reverse direction (FALSE for L1-L2-L3). STc Power Measure Voltage Values LN Voltages between phase and neutral conductor. Name Data type Unit Description f U1N REAL V RMS value of voltage L1-N. f U2N REAL V RMS value of voltage L2-N. f U3N REAL V RMS value of voltage L3-N. f U123N REAL V Mean value of the RMS values of the voltages L1-N, L2-N and L3-N. STc Power Measure Voltage Values LL Voltages between the phases. Name Data type Unit Description f U12 REAL V RMS value of voltage L1-L2 f U23 REAL V RMS value of voltage L2-L3. f U31 REAL V RMS value of voltage L3-L1. f U123 REAL V Mean value of the RMS values of the voltages L1- L2, L2-L3 and L3-L1. STc Power Measure Voltage Area Summary of the voltage measurement. TF8330 Version: 0.1.0 45
## Page 46

Appendix Name Data type Description n Timestamp DCTIME Time of update. Diag STc Power Measure Voltage Diag State of the measurement. Values LN STc Power Measure Voltage Values LN Phase to neutral voltages. Values LL STc Power Measure Voltage Values LL Phase to phase voltages. 6.1.3 STc Power Measure Current The structures STc Power Measure Current Diag, STc Power Measure Current Values and STc Power Measure Current Values EN represent measurement data of the currents and are summarized in the structure STc Power Measure Current Area. STc Power Measure Current Diag State of the current measurement. See also Diagnostic data [} 13]. Name Data type Description b Inaccurate L1 BIT Inaccurate current phase L1. b Inaccurate L2 BIT Inaccurate current phase L2. b Inaccurate L3 BIT Inaccurate current phase L3. b Overcurrent L1 BIT Overcurrent phase L1. b Overcurrent L2 BIT Overcurrent phase L2. b Overcurrent L3 BIT Overcurrent phase L3. STc Power Measure Current Values Currents of the three phases. Name Data type Unit Description f I1 REAL A RMS value of current L1. f I2 REAL A RMS value of current L2. f I3 REAL A RMS value of current L3. f I123 REAL A Sum of the RMS values of the currents L1, L2 and L3. STc Power Measure Current Values EN Currents of the three phases, as well as error current and neutral conductor. Name Data type Unit Description f I1 REAL A RMS value of current L1. f I2 REAL A RMS value of current L2. f I3 REAL A RMS value of current L3. f I123 REAL A Sum of the RMS values of the currents L1, L2 and L3. f IE REAL A Determined error current. f IN REAL A RMS value of the current in the neutral conductor STc Power Measure Current Area Summary of the current measurement. Name Data type Description n Timestamp DCTIME Time of update. Diag STc Power Measure Current Diag State of the measurement. 46 Version: 0.1.0 TF8330
## Page 47

Appendix Name Data type Description Values STc Power Measure Current Values EN Currents 6.1.4 STc Power Measure Frequency The structures STc Power Measure Frequency Diag, STc Power Measure Frequency Values and STc Power Measure Frequency Ro Co F represent the determined frequency and frequency change (Ro Co F) and are summarized in the structure STc Power Measure Frequency Area. STc Power Measure Frequency Diag State of the frequency determination. See also Diagnostic data [} 13]. Name Data type Description b Inaccurate L1 BIT Inaccurate frequency phase L1. b Inaccurate L2 BIT Inaccurate frequency phase L2. b Inaccurate L3 BIT Inaccurate frequency phase L3. STc Power Measure Frequency Values Determined frequency and filtered frequency values. Name Data type Unit Description f F REAL Hz Determined frequency. f F1 REAL Hz First stage filtered frequency. f F2 REAL Hz Second stage filtered frequency. STc Power Measure Frequency Ro Co F Determined frequency change and filtered frequency change. Name Data type Unit Description f R REAL Hz/s Determined frequency change. f R1 REAL Hz/s First stage filtered frequency change. f R2 REAL Hz/s Second stage filtered frequency change. STc Power Measure Frequency Area Summary of the frequency determination. Name Data type Description n Timestamp DCTIME Time of update. Diag STc Power Measure Frequency Diag State of determination. Values STc Power Measure Frequency Values Determined frequency. Ro Co F STc Power Measure Frequency Ro Co F Determined frequency change. 6.1.5 STc Power Measure Power The structures STc Power Measure Power Diag and STc Power Measure Power Values contain the calculated power values and are summarized in the STc Power Measure Power Area structure. STc Power Measure Power Diag State of power determination. See also Diagnostic data [} 13]. Name Data type Description b Inaccurate L1 BIT Inaccurate power phase L1. b Inaccurate L2 BIT Inaccurate power phase L2. TF8330 Version: 0.1.0 47
## Page 48

Appendix Name Data type Description b Inaccurate L3 BIT Inaccurate power phase L3. STc Power Measure Power Values Determined power values. Name Data type Unit Description f P1 REAL W RMS value of the active power L1. f P2 REAL W RMS value of the active power L2. f P3 REAL W RMS value of the active power L3. f P123 REAL W Sum of the RMS values of the active power L1, L2 and L3. f Q1 REAL var RMS value of the reactive power L1. f Q2 REAL var RMS value of the reactive power L2. f Q3 REAL var RMS value of the reactive power L3. f Q123 REAL var Sum of the RMS values of the reactive power L1, L2 and L3. f S1 REAL VA RMS value of the apparent power L1. f S2 REAL VA RMS value of the apparent power L2. f S3 REAL VA RMS value of the apparent power L3. f S123 REAL VA Sum of the RMS values of the apparent power L1, L2 and L3. f PF1 REAL - Power factor phase L1. f PF2 REAL - Power factor phase L2. f PF3 REAL - Power factor phase L3. f PF123 REAL - Average of the power factor of phases L1, L2 and L3. STc Power Measure Power Area Summary of the power determination. Name Data type Description n Timestamp DCTIME Time of update. Diag STc Power Measure Power Diag State of determination. Values STc Power Measure Power Values Power 6.1.6 STc Power Measure Fundamentals The structures STc Power Measure Fundamentals Diag and STc Power Measure Power Fundamentals contain the determined voltage, current and power components of the fundamental and are summarized in the STc Power Measure Fundamentals Area structure. STc Power Measure Fundamentals Diag State of the fundamental determination. See also Diagnostic data [} 13]. Name Data type Description b Inaccurate L1 BIT Inaccurate fundamental phase L1. b Inaccurate L2 BIT Inaccurate fundamental phase L2. b Inaccurate L3 BIT Inaccurate fundamental phase L3. STc Power Measure Power Fundamentals Determined power components of the fundamental. 48 Version: 0.1.0 TF8330
## Page 49

Appendix Name Data type Unit Description f P1 REAL W Fundamental component of the active power L1. f P2 REAL W Fundamental component of the active power L2. f P3 REAL W Fundamental component of the active power L3. f P123 REAL W Sum of the fundamental components of the active power L1, L2 and L3. f Q1 REAL var Fundamental component of the reactive power L1. f Q2 REAL var Fundamental component of the reactive power L2. f Q3 REAL var Fundamental component of the reactive power L3. f Q123 REAL var Sum of the fundamental components of the reactive power L1, L2 and L3. f Cos Phi1 REAL - Displacement factor phase L1. f Cos Phi2 REAL - Displacement factor phase L2. f Cos Phi3 REAL - Displacement factor phase L3. STc Power Measure Fundamentals Area Summary of the fundamental determination. Name Data type Description n Timestamp DCTIME Time of update. Diag STc Power Measure Fundamentals Diag State of determination. Voltage STc Power Measure Voltage Values LN [} 45] Voltage components of the fundamental. Current STc Power Measure Current Values [} 46] Current components of the fundamental. Power STc Power Measure Power Fundamentals Power components of the fundamental 6.1.7 STc Power Measure Harmonics The structures STc Power Measure Harmonics Diag and STc Power Measure Harmonics Values represent the determined harmonics and are summarized in the structure STc Power Measure Harmonics Area. STc Power Measure Harmonics Diag State of the harmonic determination. See also Diagnostic data [} 13]. Name Data type Description b Inaccurate L1 BIT Inaccurate harmonics phase L1. b Inaccurate L2 BIT Inaccurate harmonics phase L2. b Inaccurate L3 BIT Inaccurate harmonics phase L3. STc Power Measure Harmonics Values Determined harmonics up to and including the 64th harmonic. Name Data type Unit Description a Harm1 ARRAY [0..63] OF % Ratio of the nth harmonic to the REAL fundamental L1. TF8330 Version: 0.1.0 49
## Page 50

Appendix Name Data type Unit Description a Harm2 ARRAY [0..63] OF % Ratio of the nth harmonic to the REAL fundamental L2. a Harm3 ARRAY [0..63] OF % Ratio of the nth harmonic to the REAL fundamental L3. STc Power Measure Harmonics Area Summary of the harmonics determination. Name Data type Description n Timestamp DCTIME Time of update. Diag STc Power Measure Frequency Diag State of determination. Voltage STc Power Measure Harmonics Values Harmonics of the voltage. Current STc Power Measure Harmonics Values Harmonics of the current. 6.1.8 STc Power Measure Distortion The structures STc Power Measure Distortion Diag, STc Power Measure Distortion Values and STc Power Measure Distortion Values TDD represent the determined harmonic distortion and are summarized in the structure STc Power Measure Distortion Area. STc Power Measure Distortion Diag State of the distortion determination. See also Diagnostic data [} 13]. Name Data type Description b Inaccurate L1 BIT Inaccurate frequency phase L1. b Inaccurate L2 BIT Inaccurate frequency phase L2. b Inaccurate L3 BIT Inaccurate frequency phase L3. STc Power Measure Distortion Values Determined harmonic distortion in relation to the fundamental. Name Data type Unit Description f THD1 REAL % Distortion on phase L1. f THD2 REAL % Distortion on phase L2. f THD3 REAL % Distortion on phase L3. STc Power Measure Distortion Values TDD Determined distortion in relation to the maximum fundamental. Name Data type Unit Description f TDD1 REAL % Distortion on phase L1. f TDD2 REAL % Distortion on phase L2. f TDD3 REAL % Distortion on phase L3. STc Power Measure Distortion Area Summary of the distortion determination. Name Data type Description n Timestamp DCTIME Time of update. Diag STc Power Measure Frequency Diag State of determination. Voltage THD STc Power Measure Distortion Values Distortion of the voltage in relation to the fundamental. 50 Version: 0.1.0 TF8330
## Page 51

Appendix Name Data type Description Current THD STc Power Measure Distortion Values Distortion of the current in relation to the fundamental. Current TDD STc Power Measure Distortion Values TDD Distortion of the current in relation to the maximum fundamental. TF8330 Version: 0.1.0 51
## Page 52

Appendix 6.2 Support and Service Beckhoff and their partners around the world offer comprehensive support and service, making available fast and competent assistance with all questions related to Beckhoff products and system solutions. Download finder Our download finder contains all the files that we offer you for downloading. You will find application reports, technical documentation, technical drawings, configuration files and much more. The downloads are available in various formats. Beckhoff's branch offices and representatives Please contact your Beckhoff branch office or representative for local support and service on Beckhoff products! The addresses of Beckhoff's branch offices and representatives round the world can be found on our internet page: www.beckhoff.com You will also find further documentation for Beckhoff components there. Beckhoff Support Support offers you comprehensive technical assistance, helping you not only with the application of individual Beckhoff products, but also with other, wide-ranging services: • support • design, programming and commissioning of complex automation systems • and extensive training program for Beckhoff system components Hotline: +49 5246 963-157 e-mail: support@beckhoff.com Beckhoff Service The Beckhoff Service Center supports you in all matters of after-sales service: • on-site service • repair service • spare parts service • hotline service Hotline: +49 5246 963-460 e-mail: service@beckhoff.com Beckhoff Headquarters Beckhoff Automation Gmb H & Co. KG Huelshorstweg 20 33415 Verl Germany Phone: +49 5246 963-0 e-mail: info@beckhoff.com web: www.beckhoff.com 52 Version: 0.1.0 TF8330
## Page 53

Trademark statements Beckhoff®, ATRO®, Ether CAT®, Ether CAT G®, Ether CAT G10®, Ether CAT P®, MX-System®, Safety over Ether CAT®, TC/BSD®, Twin CAT®, Twin CAT/BSD®, Twin SAFE®, XFC®, XPlanar® and XTS® are registered and licensed trademarks of Beckhoff Automation Gmb H. Third-party trademark statements The registered trademark Linux® is used pursuant to a sublicense from the Linux Foundation, the exclusive licensee of Linus Torvalds, owner of the mark on a worldwide basis. Microsoft, Microsoft Azure, Microsoft Edge, Power Shell, Visual Studio, Windows and Xbox are trademarks of the Microsoft group of companies.
## Page 54

More Information: www.beckhoff.com/tf8330 Beckhoff Automation Gmb H & Co. KG Hülshorstweg 20 33415 Verl Germany Phone: +49 5246 9630 info@beckhoff.com www.beckhoff.com
