---
title: "TwinCAT_3_PLC_Lib_Tc2_Standard_EN"
product: "TwinCAT"
category: "PLC"
tags: ["CAT", "LIB", "PLC", "STANDARD", "TWIN"]
language: "EN"
document_type: "Library"
version: "1.3.3"
source_pdf: "https://download.beckhoff.com/download/Document/automation/twincat3/TwinCAT_3_PLC_Lib_Tc2_Standard_EN.pdf"
release_date: "2025-06-02"
---
Manual | EN TE1000 Twin CAT 3 | PLC Library: Tc2_Standard 2025-06-02 | Version: 1.3.3
## Page 3

Table of contents Table of contents 1 Foreword.................................................................................................................................................... 5 1.1 Notes on the documentation............................................................................................................. 5 1.2 For your safety.................................................................................................................................. 5 1.3 Notes on information security............................................................................................................ 7 2 Overview.................................................................................................................................................... 8 3 Function blocks......................................................................................................................................... 9 3.1 Bistable............................................................................................................................................. 9 3.1.1 RS...................................................................................................................................... 9 3.1.2 SR...................................................................................................................................... 9 3.2 Counter........................................................................................................................................... 10 3.2.1 CTD.................................................................................................................................. 10 3.2.2 CTU.................................................................................................................................. 11 3.2.3 CTUD............................................................................................................................... 12 3.3 Timer............................................................................................................................................... 12 3.3.1 TOF.................................................................................................................................. 12 3.3.2 TON.................................................................................................................................. 13 3.3.3 TP..................................................................................................................................... 14 3.4 Timer (LTIME)................................................................................................................................. 15 3.4.1 LTOF................................................................................................................................ 15 3.4.2 LTON................................................................................................................................ 16 3.4.3 LTP................................................................................................................................... 17 3.5 Trigger............................................................................................................................................. 18 3.5.1 F_TRIG............................................................................................................................ 18 3.5.2 R_TRIG............................................................................................................................ 19 4 String functions....................................................................................................................................... 20 4.1 CONCAT......................................................................................................................................... 20 4.2 DELETE.......................................................................................................................................... 20 4.3 FIND................................................................................................................................................ 21 4.4 INSERT........................................................................................................................................... 21 4.5 LEFT............................................................................................................................................... 22 4.6 LEN................................................................................................................................................. 22 4.7 MID.................................................................................................................................................. 23 4.8 REPLACE....................................................................................................................................... 23 4.9 RIGHT............................................................................................................................................. 24 5 String functions (WSTRING).................................................................................................................. 25 5.1 WCONCAT...................................................................................................................................... 25 5.2 WDELETE....................................................................................................................................... 25 5.3 WFIND............................................................................................................................................. 26 5.4 WINSERT........................................................................................................................................ 26 5.5 WLEFT............................................................................................................................................ 27 5.6 WLEN.............................................................................................................................................. 27 5.7 WMID.............................................................................................................................................. 27 5.8 WREPLACE.................................................................................................................................... 28 TE1000 Version: 1.3.3 3
## Page 4

Table of contents 5.9 WRIGHT.......................................................................................................................................... 28 6 Global constants..................................................................................................................................... 30 6.1 Library version................................................................................................................................. 30 4 Version: 1.3.3 TE1000
## Page 5

Foreword 1 Foreword 1.1 Notes on the documentation This description is intended exclusively for trained specialists in control and automation technology who are familiar with the applicable national standards. The documentation and the following notes and explanations must be complied with when installing and commissioning the components. The trained specialists must always use the current valid documentation. The trained specialists must ensure that the application and use of the products described is in line with all safety requirements, including all relevant laws, regulations, guidelines, and standards. Disclaimer The documentation has been compiled with care. The products described are, however, constantly under development. We reserve the right to revise and change the documentation at any time and without notice. Claims to modify products that have already been supplied may not be made on the basis of the data, diagrams, and descriptions in this documentation. Trademarks Beckhoff®, ATRO® , Ether CAT®, Ether CAT G®, Ether CAT G10®, Ether CAT P®, MX-System®, Safety over Ether CAT®, TC/BSD®, Twin CAT®, Twin CAT/BSD®, Twin SAFE®, XFC®, XPlanar®, and XTS® are registered and licensed trademarks of Beckhoff Automation Gmb H. If third parties make use of the designations or trademarks contained in this publication for their own purposes, this could infringe upon the rights of the owners of the said designations. Ether CAT® is a registered trademark and patented technology, licensed by Beckhoff Automation Gmb H, Germany. Copyright © Beckhoff Automation Gmb H & Co. KG, Germany. The distribution and reproduction of this document, as well as the use and communication of its contents without express authorization, are prohibited. Offenders will be held liable for the payment of damages. All rights reserved in the event that a patent, utility model, or design are registered. Third-party trademarks Trademarks of third parties may be used in this documentation. You can find the trademark notices here: https://www.beckhoff.com/trademarks. 1.2 For your safety Safety regulations Read the following explanations for your safety. Always observe and follow product-specific safety instructions, which you may find at the appropriate places in this document. Exclusion of liability All the components are supplied in particular hardware and software configurations which are appropriate for the application. Modifications to hardware or software configurations other than those described in the documentation are not permitted, and nullify the liability of Beckhoff Automation Gmb H & Co. KG. TE1000 Version: 1.3.3 5
## Page 6

Foreword Personnel qualification This description is only intended for trained specialists in control, automation, and drive technology who are familiar with the applicable national standards. Signal words The signal words used in the documentation are classified below. In order to prevent injury and damage to persons and property, read and follow the safety and warning notices. Personal injury warnings DANGER Hazard with high risk of death or serious injury. WARNING Hazard with medium risk of death or serious injury. CAUTION There is a low-risk hazard that could result in medium or minor injury. Warning of damage to property or environment NOTICE The environment, equipment, or data may be damaged. Information on handling the product This information includes, for example: recommendations for action, assistance or further information on the product. 6 Version: 1.3.3 TE1000
## Page 7

Foreword 1.3 Notes on information security The products of Beckhoff Automation Gmb H & Co. KG (Beckhoff), insofar as they can be accessed online, are equipped with security functions that support the secure operation of plants, systems, machines and networks. Despite the security functions, the creation, implementation and constant updating of a holistic security concept for the operation are necessary to protect the respective plant, system, machine and networks against cyber threats. The products sold by Beckhoff are only part of the overall security concept. The customer is responsible for preventing unauthorized access by third parties to its equipment, systems, machines and networks. The latter should be connected to the corporate network or the Internet only if appropriate protective measures have been set up. In addition, the recommendations from Beckhoff regarding appropriate protective measures should be observed. Further information regarding information security and industrial security can be found in our https://www.beckhoff.com/secguide. Beckhoff products and solutions undergo continuous further development. This also applies to security functions. In light of this continuous further development, Beckhoff expressly recommends that the products are kept up to date at all times and that updates are installed for the products once they have been made available. Using outdated or unsupported product versions can increase the risk of cyber threats. To stay informed about information security for Beckhoff products, subscribe to the RSS feed at https:// www.beckhoff.com/secinfo. TE1000 Version: 1.3.3 7
## Page 8

Overview 2 Overview The Standard Library includes all IEC61131-3 POUs. The POUs can be classified in: • Bistable Function Blocks • Trigger Function Blocks • Counter • Timer • Timer (LTIME) • String Functions • String Functions (WSTRING) 8 Version: 1.3.3 TE1000
## Page 9

Function blocks 3 Function blocks 3.1 Bistable 3.1.1 RS The function block RS is bistable and RESET is dominant. Q1 = RS (SET, RESET1) I.e.: Q1 = NOT RESET1 AND (Q1 OR SET) Inputs VAR_INPUT SET : BOOL; RESET1 : BOOL; END_VAR Name Type Description SET BOOL Set input RESET1 BOOL Reset input Outputs VAR_OUTPUT Q1 : BOOL; END_VAR Internal implementation of the function block: Q1: = NOT RESET1 AND (Q1 OR SET); Name Type Description Q1 BOOL The output is reset. Requirements Development environment Target platform PLC library to include Twin CAT v3.0.0 PC or CX (x86) Tc2_Standard 3.1.2 SR The function block SR is bistable and SET is dominant. Q1 = SR (SET1, RESET) I.e.: Q1 = (NOT RESET AND Q1) OR SET1Q1, SET1 and RESET are BOOL variables. TE1000 Version: 1.3.3 9
## Page 10

Function blocks Inputs VAR_INPUT SET1 : BOOL; RESET : BOOL; END_VAR Name Type Description SET1 BOOL Set input RESET BOOL Reset input Outputs VAR_OUTPUT Q1 : BOOL; END_VAR Internal implementation of the function block: Q1 := (NOT RESET AND Q1) OR SET1; Name Type Description Q1 BOOL The output is set. Requirements Development environment Target platform PLC library to include Twin CAT v3.0.0 PC or CX (x86) Tc2_Standard 3.2 Counter 3.2.1 CTD The function block CTD is a down counter. Inputs VAR_INPUT CD : BOOL; (* Count Down on rising edge *) LOAD : BOOL; (* Load Start Value *) PV : WORD; (* Start Value *) END_VAR Name Type Description CD BOOL Counting down on rising edge LOAD BOOL Load start value. PV Word Start value Outputs VAR_OUTPUT Q : BOOL; (* Counter reached 0 *) CV : WORD; (* Current Counter Value *) END_VAR 10 Version: 1.3.3 TE1000
## Page 11

Function blocks Name Type Description Q BOOL If LOAD = TRUE, the counter variable CV is initialized with the upper limit PV. If CD has a rising edge from FALSE to TRUE, CV is decremented by 1 as long as CV is greater than 0. (i.e. if no underflow is caused) CV WORD Q returns TRUE if CV is less than or equal to 0. Requirements Development environment Target platform PLC library to include Twin CAT v3.0.0 PC or CX (x86) Tc2_Standard 3.2.2 CTU The function block CTU is an up counter. Inputs VAR_INPUT CU : BOOL; (* Count Up *) RESET : BOOL; (* Reset Counter to 0 *) PV : WORD; (* Counter Limit *) END_VAR Name Type Description CU BOOL Counting up RESET BOOL Reset the counter to 0. PV WORD Counter limit Outputs VAR_OUTPUT Q : BOOL; (* Counter reached the Limit *) CV : WORD; (* Current Counter Value *) END_VAR Name Type Description Q BOOL Q returns TRUE if CV is greater than or equal to the upper limit PV. CV WORD If RESET = TRUE, the counter variable CV is initialized with 0. If CU has a rising edge from FALSE to TRUE, then the function block CV is increased by 1 as long as CV is less than PV. (i.e. if no overflow is caused) Requirements Development environment Target platform PLC library to include Twin CAT v3.0.0 PC or CX (x86) Tc2_Standard TE1000 Version: 1.3.3 11
## Page 12

Function blocks 3.2.3 CTUD The function block CTUD is an up and down counter. Inputs VAR_INPUT CU : BOOL; (* Count Up *) CD : BOOL; (* Count Down *) RESET : BOOL; (* Reset Counter to Null *) LOAD : BOOL; (* Load Start Value *) PV : WORD; (* Start Value / Counter Limit *) END_VAR Name Type Description CU BOOL Counting up CD BOOL Counting down RESET BOOL Reset the counter to 0. LOAD BOOL Load start value. PV WORD Start value/counter limit Outputs VAR_OUTPUT QU : BOOL; (* Counter reached Limit *) QD : BOOL; (* Counter reached Null *) CV : WORD; (* Current Counter Value *) END_VAR Name Type Description QU BOOL QU returns TRUE if CV has become greater than or equal to PV. QD BOOL QD returns TRUE if CV has become less than or equal to 0. CV WORD If RESET applies, the count variable CV is initialized with 0. If LOAD applies, CV is initialized with PV. If CU has a rising edge from FALSE to TRUE, then CV is increased by 1 as long as CV does not cause an overflow. If CD has a rising edge from FALSE to TRUE, then CV is decremented by 1 as long as CV does not cause an underflow. Requirements Development environment Target platform PLC library to include Twin CAT v3.0.0 PC or CX (x86) Tc2_Standard 3.3 Timer 3.3.1 TOF 12 Version: 1.3.3 TE1000
## Page 13

Function blocks The function block TOF is a timer off-delay. Inputs VAR_INPUT IN : BOOL; (* starts timer with falling edge, resets timer with rising edge *) PT : TIME; (* time to pass, before Q is set *) END_VAR Name Type Description IN BOOL Starts the timer with a falling edge and resets the timer with a rising edge. PT TIME Time elapsed before Q is set. Outputs VAR_OUTPUT Q : BOOL; (* is FALSE, PT seconds after IN had a falling edge *) ET : TIME; (* elapsed time *) END_VAR Name Type Description Q BOOL Q has a falling edge if the time specified in PT in milliseconds has elapsed. ET BOOL If IN = TRUE, the outputs are TRUE or 0. As soon as IN = FALSE, the time in ET is incremented in milliseconds until the value reaches PT, then it remains constant. Q is FALSE, if IN = FALSE and ET = PT. Otherwise Q = TRUE. Graph showing TOF over time: The function TOF requires 15 bytes of data Requirements Development environment Target platform PLC library to include Twin CAT v3.0.0 PC or CX (x86) Tc2_Standard 3.3.2 TON The function block TON is an on-delay timer. TE1000 Version: 1.3.3 13
## Page 14

Function blocks Inputs VAR_INPUT IN : BOOL; (* starts timer with rising edge, resets timer with falling edge *) PT : TIME; (* time to pass, before Q is set *) END_VAR Name Type Description IN BOOL Starts the timer with a rising edge and resets the timer with a falling edge. PT TIME Time elapsed before Q is set. Outputs VAR_OUTPUT Q : BOOL; (* is TRUE, PT seconds after IN had a rising edge *) ET : TIME; (* elapsed time *) END_VAR Name Type Description Q BOOL Q has a rising edge when the time specified in PT in milliseconds has elapsed. ET TIME If IN = FALSE, the outputs are FALSE or 0. As soon as IN = TRUE, the time in ET is incremented in milliseconds until the value reaches PT, then it remains constant. Q is TRUE, if IN = TRUE and ET = PT. Otherwise Q = FALSE. Graph showing TON over time: The function TON requires 15 bytes of data Requirements Development environment Target platform PLC library to include Twin CAT v3.0.0 PC or CX (x86) Tc2_Standard 3.3.3 TP This function block TP, a pulse generator, can be used to generate pulses with a defined pulse duration. 14 Version: 1.3.3 TE1000
## Page 15

Function blocks Inputs VAR_INPUT IN : BOOL; (* Trigger for Start of the Signal *) PT : TIME; (* The length of the High-Signal in ms *) END_VAR Name Type Description IN BOOL Trigger for the start of the signal PT TIME The length of the High signal in ms Outputs VAR_OUTPUT Q : BOOL; (* The pulse *) ET : TIME; (* The current phase of the High-Signal *) END_VAR Name Type Description Q BOOL Q supplies a signal over the interval specified in PT. ET TIME If IN = FALSE, the outputs are FALSE or 0. As soon as IN = TRUE, Q = TRUE and remains TRUE for the pulse duration PT. As long as Q = TRUE, the time in ET is incremented in milliseconds until the value reaches PT, then it remains constant. The output Q remains TRUE until the pulse duration has elapsed, irrespective of the state of the input IN. Graph showing TP over time: The TP function requires 14 bytes of data. Requirements Development environment Target platform PLC library to include Twin CAT v3.0.0 PC or CX (x86) Tc2_Standard 3.4 Timer (LTIME) 3.4.1 LTOF The function block LTOF is a timer off delay with 64- bit time data type (LTIME). TE1000 Version: 1.3.3 15
## Page 16

Function blocks Inputs VAR_INPUT IN : BOOL; (*starts timer with falling edge, resets timer with rising edge*) PT : LTIME; (*time to pass before Q is reset*) END_VAR Name Type Description IN BOOL Starts the timer with a falling edge and resets the timer with a rising edge. PT TIME Time elapsed before Q is set. Outputs VAR_OUTPUT Q : BOOL; (*is FALSE, PT seconds after IN had a falling edge*) ET : LTIME; (*elapsed time since falling edge at IN*) END_VAR Name Type Description Q BOOL Q has a falling edge when the time specified in nanoseconds in PT has elapsed. ET LTIME If IN = TRUE, the outputs are TRUE or 0. As soon as IN = FALSE, the time in ET is incremented in nanoseconds until the value reaches PT. The value then remains constant. Q is FALSE, if IN = FALSE and ET = PT. Graph showing LTOF over time: Requirements Development environment Target platform PLC library to include Twin CAT v3.0.0 PC or CX (x86) Tc2_Standard 3.4.2 LTON The function block LTON is a timer on delay with a 64-bit time data type (LTIME). Inputs VAR_INPUT IN : BOOL; (*starts imter with rising edge, resets timer with falling edge*) PT : LTIME; (*time to pass before Q is set.*) END_VAR 16 Version: 1.3.3 TE1000
## Page 17

Function blocks Name Type Description IN BOOL Starts the timer with a rising edge and resets the timer with a falling edge. PT TIME Time elapsed before Q is set. Outputs VAR_OUTPUT Q : BOOL; (*is TRUE, PT seconds after IN had a rising edge*) ET : LTIME (*elapsed time since rising edge at IN*) END_VAR Name Type Description Q BOOL Q has a rising edge when the time specified in PT in nanoseconds has elapsed. ET LTIME If IN = FALSE, the outputs are FALSE or 0. As soon as IN = TRUE, the time in ET is incremented in nanoseconds until the value reaches PT, then it remains constant. Q is TRUE, if IN = TRUE and ET = PT. Otherwise Q = FALSE. Graph showing LTON over time: Requirements Development environment Target platform PLC library to include Twin CAT v3.0.0 PC or CX (x86) Tc2_Standard 3.4.3 LTP The function block LTP is a pulse generator with 64-bit time data type (LTIME). This function block can be used to generate pulses with a defined pulse duration. Inputs VAR_INPUT IN : BOOL; (*Trigger for Start of the Signal*) PT : LTIME; (*The length of the High- Signal*) END_VAR Name Type Description IN BOOL Trigger for the start of the signal PT LTIME The length of the High signal in ms TE1000 Version: 1.3.3 17
## Page 18

Function blocks Outputs VAR_OUTPUT Q : BOOL; (*The pulse*) ET : LTIME (*elapsed time since pulse start*) END_VAR Name Type Description Q BOOL Q supplies a signal over the interval specified in PT. ET LTIME If IN = FALSE, the outputs are FALSE or 0. As soon as IN = TRUE, Q = TRUE and remains TRUE for the pulse duration PT. As long as Q = TRUE, the time in ET is incremented in nanoseconds until the value reaches PT, then it remains constant. The output Q remains TRUE until the pulse duration has elapsed, irrespective of the state of the input IN. Graph showing LTP over time: Requirements Development environment Target platform PLC library to include Twin CAT v3.0.0 PC or CX (x86) Tc2_Standard 3.5 Trigger 3.5.1 F_TRIG The function block F_TRIG is a detector for a falling edge. Inputs VAR_INPUT CLK : BOOL; (* Signal to detect *) END_VAR Name Type Description CLK BOOL Signal to detect 18 Version: 1.3.3 TE1000
## Page 19

Function blocks Outputs VAR_OUTPUT Q : BOOL; (* Edge detected *) END_VAR Name Type Description Q BOOL As long as the input variable CLK = TRUE, the output will be Q = FALSE. As soon as CLK = FALSE, Q = TRUE. This means that each time the function is called, Q returns FALSE until CLK has a rising edge and then a falling edge. Requirements Development environment Target platform PLC library to include Twin CAT v3.0.0 PC or CX (x86) Tc2_Standard 3.5.2 R_TRIG The function block R_TRIG is a rising edge detector. Inputs VAR_INPUT CLK : BOOL; (* Signal to detect *) END_VAR Name Type Description CLK BOOL Signal to detect Outputs VAR_OUTPUT Q : BOOL; (* Edge detected *) END_VAR Name Type Description Q BOOL As long as the input variable CLK = FALSE, the output Q = FALSE. As soon as CLK = TRUE, Q will also return TRUE. This means that each time the function is called, Q returns FALSE until CLK has a falling edge and then a rising edge again. Requirements Development environment Target platform PLC library to include Twin CAT v3.0.0 PC or CX (x86) Tc2_Standard TE1000 Version: 1.3.3 19
## Page 20

String functions 4 String functions On the PLC samples page you can download a sample project about string functions. 4.1 CONCAT Concatenation (combination) of two strings. FUNCTION CONCAT: STRING (255) VAR_INPUT STR1 : STRING(255); STR2 : STRING(255); END_VAR Example in IL: LD 'SUSI' CONCAT 'WILLI' ST Var1 (* Result is 'SUSIWILLI' *) Example in ST: Var1 := CONCAT ('SUSI','WILLI'); Requirements Development environment Target platform PLC library to include Twin CAT v3.0.0 PC or CX (x86) Tc2_Standard 4.2 DELETE The function DELETE removes a partial string from a larger string at a defined position. The input variable STR is type STRING, LEN and POS are type INT, the return value of the function is type STRING. DELETE (STR, LEN, POS) means: Delete LEN characters from STR beginning with the character in the POS. FUNCTION DELETE: STRING (255) VAR_INPUT STR : STRING(255); LEN : INT; POS : INT; END_VAR Example in IL: LD 'SUXYSI' DELETE 2,3 ST Var1 (* Result is 'SUSI' *) Example in ST: Var1 := DELETE ('SUXYSI',2,3); 20 Version: 1.3.3 TE1000
## Page 21

String functions Requirements Development environment Target platform PLC library to include Twin CAT v3.0.0 PC or CX (x86) Tc2_Standard 4.3 FIND The function FIND searches for a partial string within a string. FIND (STR1, STR2) means: Find the position of the first character where STR2 appears in STR1 for the first time. If STR2 is not found in STR1, then OUT:=0. FUNCTION FIND: INT VAR_INPUT STR1 : STRING(255); STR2 : STRING(255); END_VAR Example in IL: LD 'SUXYSI' FIND 'XY' ST Var1 (* Result is 3 *) Example in ST: Var1 := FIND('SUXYSI','XY'); Requirements Development environment Target platform PLC library to include Twin CAT v3.0.0 PC or CX (x86) Tc2_Standard 4.4 INSERT The function INSERT inserts a string into another string at a defined point. INSERT (STR1, STR2, POS) means: Insert STR2 into STR1 after position POS. FUNCTION INSERT: STRING (255) VAR_INPUT STR1 : STRING(255); STR2 : STRING(255); POS : INT; END_VAR Example in IL: LD 'SUSI' INSERT 'XY',2 ST Var1 (* Result is 'SUXYSI' *) Example in ST: Var1 := INSERT('SUSI','XY',2); TE1000 Version: 1.3.3 21
## Page 22

String functions Requirements Development environment Target platform PLC library to include Twin CAT v3.0.0 PC or CX (x86) Tc2_Standard 4.5 LEFT The function LEFT returns the left, initial string for a given string. LEFT (STR, SIZE) means: Take the first SIZE character from the left in the string STR. FUNCTION LEFT: STRING (255) VAR_INPUT STR : STRING(255); SIZE : INT; END_VAR Example in IL: LD 'SUSI' LEFT 3 ST Var1 (* Result is 'SUS' *) Example in ST: Var1 := LEFT ('SUSI',3); Requirements Development environment Target platform PLC library to include Twin CAT v3.0.0 PC or CX (x86) Tc2_Standard 4.6 LEN The function LEN returns the length of a string. FUNCTION LEN: INT VAR_INPUT STR : STRING(255); END_VA Example in IL: LD 'SUSI' LEN ST Var1 (* Result is 4 *) Example in ST: Var1 := LEN ('SUSI'); Requirements Development environment Target platform PLC library to include Twin CAT v3.0.0 PC or CX (x86) Tc2_Standard 22 Version: 1.3.3 TE1000
## Page 23

String functions 4.7 MID The function MID returns a partial string from within a string. MID (STR, LEN, POS) means: Retrieve LEN characters from the STR string beginning with the character at position POS. FUNCTION MID: STRING (255) VAR_INPUT STR : STRING(255); LEN : INT; POS : INT; END_VAR Example in IL: LD 'SUSI' MID 2,2 ST Var1 (* Result is 'US' *) Example in ST: Var1 := MID ('SUSI',2,2); Requirements Development environment Target platform PLC library to include Twin CAT v3.0.0 PC or CX (x86) Tc2_Standard 4.8 REPLACE The function REPLACE replaces a partial string from a larger string with a third string. REPLACE (STR1, STR2, L, P) means: Replace L characters from STR1 with STR2 beginning with the character in the P position. FUNCTION REPLACE: STRING (255) VAR_INPUT STR1 : STRING(255); STR2 : STRING(255); L : INT; P : INT; END_VAR Example in IL: LD 'SUXYSI' REPLACE 'K',2,2 ST Var1 (* Result is 'SKYSI' *) Example in ST: Var1 := REPLACE('SUXYSI','K',2,2); Requirements Development environment Target platform PLC library to include Twin CAT v3.0.0 PC or CX (x86) Tc2_Standard TE1000 Version: 1.3.3 23
## Page 24

String functions 4.9 RIGHT The RIGHT function returns a right-hand start string of a string. RIGHT (STR, SIZE) means: take the first SIZE characters from the right in the STR string. FUNCTION RIGHT: STRING (255) VAR_INPUT STR : STRING(255); SIZE : INT; END_VAR Example in IL: LD 'SUSI' RIGHT 3 ST Var1 (* Result is 'USI' *) Example in ST: Var1 := RIGHT ('SUSI',3); Requirements Development environment Target platform PLC library to include Twin CAT v3.0.0 PC or CX (x86) Tc2_Standard 24 Version: 1.3.3 TE1000
## Page 25

String functions (WSTRING) 5 String functions (WSTRING) 5.1 WCONCAT Concatenation (combination) of two WSTRINGs. FUNCTION WCONCAT: WSTRING (255) VAR_INPUT STR1 : WSTRING(255) (*Head part of the concatenated result*) STR2 : WSTRING(255) (*Tail part of the concatenated result*) END_VAR Sample in IL: LD "SUSI" WCONCAT "WILLI" ST Var1 (*Ergebnis ist "SUSIWILLI"*) Sample in ST: Var1 := WCONCAT ("SUS","WILLI"); Requirements Development environment Target platform PLC library to include Twin CAT v3.0.0 PC or CX (x86) Tc2_Standard 5.2 WDELETE The function WDELETE deletes part of a WSTRING from a certain point. The input STR is of type WSTRING. LEN and POS are of type INT. The return value of the function is of type WSTRING. WDELETE (STR, LEN, POS) means: Delete LEN characters from STR beginning with the POSth character. FUNCTION WDELETE: WSTRING (255) VAR_INPUT STR1 : WSTRING(255); LEN : INT; POS : INT; END_VAR Sample in IL: LD "SUXYSI" WDELETE 2,3 ST Var1 (*Ergebnis ist "SUSI"*) Sample in ST: Var1 := WDELETE ("SUXYSI",2,3); Requirements Development environment Target platform PLC library to include Twin CAT v3.0.0 PC or CX (x86) Tc2_Standard TE1000 Version: 1.3.3 25
## Page 26

String functions (WSTRING) 5.3 WFIND The function WFIND searches for a part in WSTRING. WFIND (STR1, STR2) means: Find the position of the first character of first occurrence of STR2 in STR1. If STR2 does not occur in STR1, then OUT := 0 applies. FUNCTION WFIND: INT VAR_INPUT STR1 : WSTRING(255); STR2 : WSTRING(255); END_VAR Sample in IL: LD "SUXYSI" WFIND "XY" ST Var1 (*Ergebnis ist 3*) Sample in ST: Var1 := WFIND ("SUXYSI","XY"); Requirements Development environment Target platform PLC library to include Twin CAT v3.0.0 PC or CX (x86) Tc2_Standard 5.4 WINSERT The function WINSERT adds a WString in another WString from a particular location. WINSERT (STR1, STR2, POS) means: Add STR2 in STR1 after the POSth position. FUNCTION WINSERT: WSTRING (255) VAR_INPUT STR1 : WSTRING(255); STR2 : WSTRING(255); POS : INT; END_VAR Sample in IL: LD "SUSI" WINSERT "XY",2 ST Var1 (*Ergebnis ist "UXYSI"*) Sample in ST: Var1 := WINSERT ("SUSI","XY",2); Requirements Development environment Target platform PLC library to include Twin CAT v3.0.0 PC or CX (x86) Tc2_Standard 26 Version: 1.3.3 TE1000
## Page 27

String functions (WSTRING) 5.5 WLEFT The function WLEFT supplies a left-hand start string for a WSTRING. WLEFT (STR, SIZE) means: Take the first SIZE characters from the left in WString STR. FUNCTION WLEFT: WSTRING (255) VAR_INPUT STR : WSTRING(255); SIZE : INT; END_VAR Sample in IL: LD "SUSI" WLEFT 3 ST Var1 (*Ergebnis ist "SUS"*) Sample in ST: Var1 := WLEFT ("SUSI",3); Requirements Development environment Target platform PLC library to include Twin CAT v3.0.0 PC or CX (x86) Tc2_Standard 5.6 WLEN The function WLEN outputs the length of a WSTRING. FUNCTION WLEN: INT VAR_INPUT STR : WSTRING(255); END_VAR Sample in IL: LD "SUSI" WLEN ST Var1 (*Ergebnis ist 4*) Sample in ST: Var1 := WLEN ("SUSI"); Requirements Development environment Target platform PLC library to include Twin CAT v3.0.0 PC or CX (x86) Tc2_Standard 5.7 WMID TE1000 Version: 1.3.3 27
## Page 28

String functions (WSTRING) The function WMID supplies a substring of a WSTRING. WMID(STR, LEN, POS) means: Fetch LEN characters from WSTRING STR beginning with the character at position POS. FUNCTION WMID: WSTRING (255) VAR_INPUT STR : WSTRING(255); LEN : INT; POS : INT; END_VAR Sample in IL: LD "SUSI" WMID 2,2 ST Var1 (*Ergebnis ist "US"*) Sample in ST: Var1 := WMID ("SUSI",2,2); Requirements Development environment Target platform PLC library to include Twin CAT v3.0.0 PC or CX (x86) Tc2_Standard 5.8 WREPLACE The function WREPLACE replaces a substring of a WSTRING with another WSTRING. WREPLACE (STR1, STR2, L, P) means: Replace L characters from STR1 with STR2 beginning with the Pth character. FUNCTION WREPLACE: WSTRING (255) VAR_INPUT STR1 : WSTRING(255); STR2 : WSTRING(255); L : INT; P : INT; END_VAR Sample in IL: LD "SUXYSI" WREPLACE "XY",2 ST Var1 (*Ergebnis ist "SKYSI"*) Sample in ST: Var1 := WREPLACE ("SUXYSI","K",2,2); Requirements Development environment Target platform PLC library to include Twin CAT v3.0.0 PC or CX (x86) Tc2_Standard 5.9 WRIGHT 28 Version: 1.3.3 TE1000
## Page 29

String functions (WSTRING) WRIGHT supplies a right-hand start string for a WSTRING. WRIGHT (STR, SIZE) means: Take the first SIZE characters from the right in WString STR. FUNCTION WRIGHT: WSTRING (255) VAR_INPUT STR : WSTRING(255); SIZE : INT; END_VAR Sample in IL: LD "SUSI" WRIGHT 3 ST Var1 (*Ergebnis ist "USI"*) Sample in ST: Var1 := WRIGHT ("SUSI",3); Requirements Development environment Target platform PLC library to include Twin CAT v3.0.0 PC or CX (x86) Tc2_Standard TE1000 Version: 1.3.3 29
## Page 30

Global constants 6 Global constants 6.1 Library version All libraries have a certain version. This version is displayed in the repository of the PLC library. The version number of the library is stored in a global constant. Global_Version VAR_GLOBAL CONSTANT st Lib Version_Tc2_Standard : ST_Lib Version; END_VAR Name Type Description st Lib Version_Tc2_St ST_Lib Version Version number of the Tc2_Standard library andard The function F_Cmp Lib Version is used to compare the existing and required version. Compatibility with Twin CAT 2 Query options for Twin CAT 2 libraries are no longer available. Requirements Development environment Target platform PLC library to include Twin CAT v3.0.0 PC or CX (x86) Tc2_Standard 30 Version: 1.3.3 TE1000
## Page 31

Trademark statements Beckhoff®, Twin CAT®, Twin CAT/BSD®, TC/BSD®, Ether CAT®, Ether CAT G®, Ether CAT G10®, Ether CAT P®, Safety over Ether CAT®, Twin SAFE®, XFC®, XTS® and XPlanar® are registered trademarks of and licensed by Beckhoff Automation Gmb H.
## Page 32

More Information: www.beckhoff.com/te1000 Beckhoff Automation Gmb H & Co. KG Hülshorstweg 20 33415 Verl Germany Phone: +49 5246 9630 info@beckhoff.com www.beckhoff.com
