---
title: "NC Errors Twin CAT 3"
product: "TwinCAT"
category: "Motion_Control"
tags: ["CAT", "ERRORS", "NC", "TWIN"]
language: "EN"
document_type: "Manual"
version: "2.3.4"
source_pdf: "https://download.beckhoff.com/download/Document/automation/twincat3/TwinCAT_NC_Error_Codes_EN.pdf"
release_date: "2025-09-19"
---
Manual | EN NC Errors Twin CAT 3 | Motion 2025-09-19 | Version: 2.3.4
## Page 3

Table of contents Table of contents 1 Foreword.................................................................................................................................................... 5 1.1 Notes on the documentation............................................................................................................. 5 1.2 For your safety.................................................................................................................................. 5 1.3 Notes on information security............................................................................................................ 7 2 Overview of NC Errors.............................................................................................................................. 8 2.1 General NC Errors............................................................................................................................ 8 2.2 Channel Errors................................................................................................................................ 10 2.3 Group Errors................................................................................................................................... 14 2.4 Axis Errors....................................................................................................................................... 36 2.5 Encoder Errors................................................................................................................................ 44 2.6 Controller Errors.............................................................................................................................. 51 2.7 Drive error....................................................................................................................................... 57 2.8 Table Errors.................................................................................................................................... 62 2.9 NC-PLC Errors................................................................................................................................ 65 2.10 Kinematic Transformation............................................................................................................... 72 2.11 Bode Return Codes......................................................................................................................... 73 2.12 Further Error Codes........................................................................................................................ 75 NC Errors Version: 2.3.4 3
## Page 4

Table of contents 4 Version: 2.3.4 NC Errors
## Page 5

Foreword 1 Foreword 1.1 Notes on the documentation This description is intended exclusively for trained specialists in control and automation technology who are familiar with the applicable national standards. The documentation and the following notes and explanations must be complied with when installing and commissioning the components. The trained specialists must always use the current valid documentation. The trained specialists must ensure that the application and use of the products described is in line with all safety requirements, including all relevant laws, regulations, guidelines, and standards. Disclaimer The documentation has been compiled with care. The products described are, however, constantly under development. We reserve the right to revise and change the documentation at any time and without notice. Claims to modify products that have already been supplied may not be made on the basis of the data, diagrams, and descriptions in this documentation. Trademarks Beckhoff®, ATRO® , Ether CAT®, Ether CAT G®, Ether CAT G10®, Ether CAT P®, MX-System®, Safety over Ether CAT®, TC/BSD®, Twin CAT®, Twin CAT/BSD®, Twin SAFE®, XFC®, XPlanar®, and XTS® are registered and licensed trademarks of Beckhoff Automation Gmb H. If third parties make use of the designations or trademarks contained in this publication for their own purposes, this could infringe upon the rights of the owners of the said designations. Ether CAT® is a registered trademark and patented technology, licensed by Beckhoff Automation Gmb H, Germany. Copyright © Beckhoff Automation Gmb H & Co. KG, Germany. The distribution and reproduction of this document, as well as the use and communication of its contents without express authorization, are prohibited. Offenders will be held liable for the payment of damages. All rights reserved in the event that a patent, utility model, or design are registered. Third-party trademarks Trademarks of third parties may be used in this documentation. You can find the trademark notices here: https://www.beckhoff.com/trademarks. 1.2 For your safety Safety regulations Read the following explanations for your safety. Always observe and follow product-specific safety instructions, which you may find at the appropriate places in this document. Exclusion of liability All the components are supplied in particular hardware and software configurations which are appropriate for the application. Modifications to hardware or software configurations other than those described in the documentation are not permitted, and nullify the liability of Beckhoff Automation Gmb H & Co. KG. NC Errors Version: 2.3.4 5
## Page 6

Foreword Personnel qualification This description is only intended for trained specialists in control, automation, and drive technology who are familiar with the applicable national standards. Signal words The signal words used in the documentation are classified below. In order to prevent injury and damage to persons and property, read and follow the safety and warning notices. Personal injury warnings DANGER Hazard with high risk of death or serious injury. WARNING Hazard with medium risk of death or serious injury. CAUTION There is a low-risk hazard that could result in medium or minor injury. Warning of damage to property or environment NOTICE The environment, equipment, or data may be damaged. Information on handling the product This information includes, for example: recommendations for action, assistance or further information on the product. 6 Version: 2.3.4 NC Errors
## Page 7

Foreword 1.3 Notes on information security The products of Beckhoff Automation Gmb H & Co. KG (Beckhoff), insofar as they can be accessed online, are equipped with security functions that support the secure operation of plants, systems, machines and networks. Despite the security functions, the creation, implementation and constant updating of a holistic security concept for the operation are necessary to protect the respective plant, system, machine and networks against cyber threats. The products sold by Beckhoff are only part of the overall security concept. The customer is responsible for preventing unauthorized access by third parties to its equipment, systems, machines and networks. The latter should be connected to the corporate network or the Internet only if appropriate protective measures have been set up. In addition, the recommendations from Beckhoff regarding appropriate protective measures should be observed. Further information regarding information security and industrial security can be found in our https://www.beckhoff.com/secguide. Beckhoff products and solutions undergo continuous further development. This also applies to security functions. In light of this continuous further development, Beckhoff expressly recommends that the products are kept up to date at all times and that updates are installed for the products once they have been made available. Using outdated or unsupported product versions can increase the risk of cyber threats. To stay informed about information security for Beckhoff products, subscribe to the RSS feed at https:// www.beckhoff.com/secinfo. NC Errors Version: 2.3.4 7
## Page 8

Overview of NC Errors 2 Overview of NC Errors Error code ( hex ) Description 0x4000 - 0x4FFF: NC error code range 0x40nn General errors [} 8] 0x41nn Channel Errors [} 10] 0x42nn Group Errors [} 14] 0x43nn Axis Errors [} 36] 0x44nn Encoder Errors [} 44] 0x45nn Controller Errors [} 51] 0x46nn Drive Errors [} 57] 0x4Ann Table Errors [} 62] 0x4Bnn NC PLC errors [} 65] 0x4Cnn Kinematic Transformation [} 72] 0x8000 … 0x8FFF: New extended NC error code range 0x81nn - 0x811F Bode plot (diagnosis) [} 73] 0x8120 - 0x8FFF further errors [} 75] See also: • ADS Return Codes 2.1 General NC Errors Error(Hex) Error(Dec) Error type Description 4000 16384 Internal Internal error Internal system error in the NC on ring 0, no further details. 4001 16385 Memory Memory error The ring-0 memory management is not providing the required memory. This is usually a result of another error, as a result of which the controller will halt normal operation (now if not before). 4002 16386 Internal NC Retain data error (persistent data) An error occurred when loading the NC Retain data, so that the affected axes are no longer referenced (status bit "Homed" is FALSE). This error can have the following reasons: - no NC Retain data were found - only old NC Retain data were found (old backup data set) - the NC Retain data are corrupt or inconsistent. 4003 16387 Parameter Parameter for monitoring the NC setpoint output is invalid The parameter for activating or deactivating the "cyclic monitoring of NC setpoint output for steadiness and consistency" function is invalid. (Special function) 4004 16388 Internal External error This error code can be set by an external module (e.g. third-party module) or can be set if an external module has an error. 8 Version: 2.3.4 NC Errors
## Page 9

Overview of NC Errors Error(Hex) Error(Dec) Error type Description 4010 16400 Parameter Channel identifier not allowed Either an unacceptable value (not 1...255) has been used, or a channel that does not exist in the system has been named. 4011 16401 Parameter Group identifier not allowed Either an unacceptable value (not 1...255) has been used, or a group that does not exist in the system has been named. 4012 16402 Parameter Axis identifier not allowed Either an unacceptable value (not 1...255) has been used, or an axis that does not exist in the system has been named. 4013 16403 Parameter Encoder identifier not allowed Either an unacceptable value (not 1...255) has been used, or a encoder that does not exist in the system has been named. 4014 16404 Parameter Controller identifier not allowed Either an unacceptable value (not 1...255) has been used, or a controller that does not exist in the system has been named. 4015 16405 Parameter Drive identifier not allowed Either an unacceptable value (not 1...255) has been used, or a drive that does not exist in the system has been named. 4016 16406 Parameter Table identifier not allowed Either an unacceptable value (not 1...255) has been used, or a table that does not exist in the system has been named. 4020 16416 Internal Missing process image There is no PLC-axis interface when creating an axis. 4021 16417 Internal Missing process image There is no axis-PLC interface when creating an axis. 4022 16418 Internal Missing process image There is no encoder-I/O interface when creating an axis. 4023 16419 Internal Missing process image There is no I/O-encoder interface when creating an axis. 4024 16420 Internal Missing process image There is no drive-I/O interface when creating an axis. 4025 16421 Internal Missing process image There is no I/O-drive interface when creating an axis. 4030 16432 Internal Coupling type not allowed The master/slave coupling type is not allowed. 4031 16433 Internal Axis type not allowed The type specification in the axis generation is inadmissible. 4032 16434 Parameter Unknown channel type The NC channel type is unknown. Known types are e.g. an NCI channel, a FIFO channel, etc. 4040 16448 Internal Axis is incompatible NC Errors Version: 2.3.4 9
## Page 10

Overview of NC Errors Error(Hex) Error(Dec) Error type Description The axis is not suitable for the intended purpose. A high speed/low speed axis, for example, cannot function as a slave in an axis coupling. 4050 16464 Internal Channel not ready to operate The channel is not complete, and is therefore not ready for operation. This is usually a consequence of problems at system start-up. 4051 16465 Internal Group not ready to operate The group is not complete, and is therefore not ready for operation. This is usually a consequence of problems at system start-up. 4052 16466 Internal Axis not ready to operate The axis is not complete, and is therefore not ready for operation. This is usually a consequence of problems at system start-up. 4060 16480 Internal Channel exists The channel that is to be created already exists. 4061 16481 Internal Group exists The group that is to be created already exists. 4062 16482 Internal Axis exists The axis that is to be created already exists. 4063 16483 Internal Table exists The table that is to be created already exists, or attempts are made to use an already existing table id internally ( e.g. for the universal flying saw). 4070 16496 Internal Axis index not allowed The location within the channel specified for an axis is not allowed. 4071 16497 Internal Axis index not allowed The location within the group specified for an axis is not allowed. 2.2 Channel Errors Error(Hex) Error(Dec) Error type Description 4101 16641 Parameter Group index not allowed The location within the channel specified for a group is not allowed. 4102 16642 Address Null pointer The pointer to the group is invalid. This is usually a consequence of an error during system start. 4103 16643 Internal Missing process image It is not possible to exchange data with the PLC. Possible causes: 1. The channel has no interface (no interpreter available). 2. The connection to the PLC is faulty. 4104 16644 Parameter M-function index not allowed Unacceptable M-function (not 0...159) detected at the execution level. 4105 16645 Memory No memory 10 Version: 2.3.4 NC Errors
## Page 11

Overview of NC Errors Error(Hex) Error(Dec) Error type Description There is no more system memory available. This is usually the result of another error. 4106 16646 Function Not ready The function is not presently available, because a similar function is already being processed. Usually this is a result of access conflicts: more than one instance wants to issue commands to the channel. This can, for example, be the consequence of an incorrect PLC program. 4107 16647 Function Function/command not supported A requested function or command is not supported by the channel. 4108 16648 Parameter Invalid parameter while starting Parameters to start the channel (Twin CAT-Start) are invalid. Typically there is an invalid memory size or channel type requested. 4109 16649 Function Channel function (command) is not executable. A channel function e.g. interpreter start is not executable because the channel is already busy, no program is loaded or in an error state. 410A 16650 Function Itp Go Ahead is not executable. The requested Itp Go Ahead command is not executable because the interpreter is not executing a decoder stop. 4110 16656 Parameter Error opening a file The specified file does not exist. Example: NC program unknown. 4111 16657 NC Syntax error when loading programming The NC found a syntax error when loading an NC program. 4112 16658 NC Syntax error when interpreting programming The NC found a syntax error when processing an NC program. 4113 16659 NC Missing subroutine programming The NC found a missing subroutine while loading. 4114 16660 Memory Loading buffer of interpreter is too small The capacity of the interpreter loading buffer has been exceeded. 4115 16661 Internal Symbolism Reserved, not currently used 4116 16662 Internal Symbolism Reserved, not currently used 4117 16663 NC Subroutine incomplete programming The header of the subroutine is missing. 4118 16664 NC Error while loading the NC program programming The maximum number of loadable NC programs has been reached. Possible cause: Too many subprograms have been loaded from a main program. 4119 16665 NC Error while loading the NC program programming The program name is too long. NC Errors Version: 2.3.4 11
## Page 12

Overview of NC Errors Error(Hex) Error(Dec) Error type Description 4120 16672 NC Divide by Zero programming The NC encountered a computation error during execution: division by 0. 4121 16673 NC Invalid circle parameterization programming The NC detected a calculation error during processing: the specified circle is not calculable. 4122 16674 NC Invalid FPU-Operation programming The NC encountered an invalid FPU-Operation during execution. This error occurs e.g. by calculating the square root of a negative number. 4130 16688 NC Stack overflow: Subroutines programming The NC detected a stack overflow while processing: Too many subroutine levels. 4131 16689 NC Stack underflow: Subroutines programming The NC detected a stack underflow while processing: Too many subroutine return commands. A main program must not be terminated with a return command. 4132 16690 NC Stack overflow: Arithmetic unit programming The NC detected a stack overflow during processing: the calculation is too complex or is not written correctly. 4133 16691 NC Stack underflow: Arithmetic unit programming The NC detected a stack underflow during processing: The calculation is too complex or is not written correctly. 4140 16704 Parameter Register index not allowed The NC detected an invalid register index during processing: The program contains an invalid specification (not R0... R999) or a pointer register contains an invalid value. 4141 16705 NC G-function index not allowed programming The NC encountered an unacceptable G-function (not 0...159) during execution. 4142 16706 NC M-function index not allowed programming The NC encountered an unacceptable M-function (not 0...159) during execution. 4143 16707 NC Extended address specification not allowed programming The NC encountered an unacceptable extended address (not 1...9) during execution. 4144 16708 NC Index to the internal H-function not allowed programming The NC encountered an unacceptable internal H- function in the course of processing. This is usually a consequence of an error during loading. 4145 16709 Parameter Machine data value not allowed While processing instructions the NC detected an impermissible value for the machine data (MDB) (not 0…7). 4150 16720 Parameter Tool compensation parameters cannot be changed here. 12 Version: 2.3.4 NC Errors
## Page 13

Overview of NC Errors Error(Hex) Error(Dec) Error type Description The NC encountered an unacceptable change of parameters for the tool compensation during execution. This can be, for example, a changed tool radius while a circle was programmed. 4151 16721 Parameter Cannot calculate tool compensation. The NC encountered an error in the calculation of the tool compensation. 4152 16722 NC Tool compensation programming The plane for the tool compensation cannot be changed here. This error occurred for instance by changing the plane when the tool radius compensation is turned on or active. 4153 16723 NC Tool compensation programming The D-Word is missing or invalid by turning on the tool compensation. 4154 16724 NC Tool compensation programming The specified tool radius is invalid because the value is less or equal zero. 4155 16725 NC Tool compensation programming The tool radius cannot be changed here. 4156 16726 Internal Tool compensation The collision detection table is full. 4157 16727 Internal Tool compensation An internal error occurred when switching on the bottleneck detection. 4158 16728 Internal Tool compensation An internal error occurred in the bottleneck detection: Update Reversed Geo failed. 4159 16729 NC Tool compensation programming An unexpected combination of geometry types with bottleneck detection turned on was detected. 415A 16730 NC Tool compensation programming The programmed inner circle is smaller than the cutter radius. 415B 16731 NC Tool compensation programming The bottleneck detection recognized a contour violation. 415C 16732 Memory No memory The table for corrected entries is full. 415D 16733 Memory No memory The input table for tangential following is full. 415E 16734 Memory No memory The executing table for tangential following is full. 415F 16735 Internal Geometry calculation The geometric entry for the tangential following cannot be calculated. 4160 16736 Internal Reserved Reserved, not currently used 4161 16737 Internal Reserved Reserved, not currently used NC Errors Version: 2.3.4 13
## Page 14

Overview of NC Errors Error(Hex) Error(Dec) Error type Description 4162 16738 Parameter Interpolation rules can not be determined The actual active interpolation rules (G-Code), zero offset shifts or rotation cannot be detected. 4170 16752 NC Error loading: invalid parameter programming The NC found an invalid parameter while loading an NC program. 4171 16753 Internal Invalid contour start position The NC detected a calculation error during processing: The specified contour cannot be calculated because the start position is not on the contour. 4172 16754 Internal Reverse: invalid table index The NC encountered an invalid internal entry index during execution of the retrace function. 4173 16755 NC Invalid G code programming Invalid default G code/Wrong expression/syntax in the default G code 4174 16756 NC Error opening the G code file programming Error opening the default G code file 2.3 Group Errors Error(Hex) Error(Dec) Error type Description 4200 16896 Parameter Group ID not allowed The value for the group ID is not allowed because, for example, it has already been assigned, is less than or equal to zero or is greater than 255. Value range: [1 ... 255] Unit: 1 4201 16897 Parameter Group type not allowed The value for the group type is unacceptable because it is not defined. Type 1: PTP group with slaves (servo) Type 4: Dx D group with slaves (3D group) Type 5: fast/creep group Type 6: stepper motor group Type 9: encoder group with slaves (servo) … Value range: [1 ... 12] Unit: 1 4202 16898 Initialization Master axis index not allowed The value for the master axis index in an interpolating 3D group is not allowed, because, for example, it has left the value range. Index 0: x-axis (first master axis) Index 1: Y axis (second master axis) Index 2: Z axis (third master axis) Value range: [0, 1, 2] Unit: 1 4203 16899 Initialization Slave axis index not allowed (internal error) The value for the slave axis index in a group is not allowed, because, for example, it has left the value range, the slave position to be used when inserting a new slave connection is already occupied, or because no slave is present when such a connection is being removed. 14 Version: 2.3.4 NC Errors
## Page 15

Overview of NC Errors Error(Hex) Error(Dec) Error type Description Index 0: first slave axis Index 1: second slave axis Index 2: etc. Value range: [0 ... 7] Unit: 1 4204 16900 Initialization Internal error An unexpected internal error has occurred. The following situations could be the cause: Not enough TC router memory or Windows memory available to build the internal NC objects, internal NC structures and links (pointers between the NC objects) are faulty or missing, a fatal internal error has occurred in the calculation for a stop command, internal checks of the NC own logic and algorithms (self- monitoring software), unexpected modes and cases that are not regularly foreseen but are detected as erroneous. Often in such an error situation an additional error message is output in the logger (Windows Event Viewer), which can be helpful for more detailed analysis by Beckhoff or the user. 4205 16901 Parameter Cycle time for set execution task (SAF) not allowed The value of the cycle time for the NC set execution task (SAF 1/2) is not allowed, because it has left the value range. Value range: [0.00001 ... 1.0] Unit: s 4206 16902 Initialization "GROUPERR_RANGE_MAXELEMENTSINAXIS " 4207 16903 Parameter Cycle time for the set preparation task (SVB) not allowed The value of the cycle time for the NC set preparation task (SVB 1/2) is not allowed, because it has passed outside the value range. Value range: [0.00001 ... 1.0] Unit: s 4208 16904 Parameter Single step mode not allowed The flag for the activation or deactivation of single step mode is not allowed. Value 0: passive (buffer mode) Value 1: active (single step mode) Value range: [0, 1] Unit: 1 4209 16905 Parameter Group (de)activation invalid (internal error) The flag for (de)activating the full group is invalid. Value 0: group active Value 1: group passive Value range: [0, 1] Unit: 1 420A 16906 Initialization Set execution state (SAF state) not allowed (internal error) The value for the state of the set execution state machine (SAF state) is not allowed. This error occurs on passing outside the range of values, or if the state machine enters an error state. Value range: [0 ... 5] Unit: 1 420B 16907 Address Channel address The group does not have a channel, or the channel address has not been initialized. NC Errors Version: 2.3.4 15
## Page 16

Overview of NC Errors Error(Hex) Error(Dec) Error type Description 420C 16908 Address Axis address (master axis) The group does not have a master axis (or axes) or the axis address(es) has (have) not been initialized. 420D 16909 Address Master axis address A master/slave coupling is to be inserted into the group, but there is no valid address for the leading master axis. 420E 16910 Address Slave axis address A master/slave coupling is to be inserted into the group, but there is no valid address for the slave axis. 420F 16911 Address Slave setpoint generator address A master/slave coupling is to be inserted into the group, but there is no valid address for the slave setpoint generator. 4210 16912 Address Encoder address An axis in the group does not have an encoder, or the encoder address has not been initialized. 4211 16913 Address Controller address An axis in the group does not have a controller, or the controller address has not been initialized. 4212 16914 Address Drive address An axis in the group does not have a drive, or the drive address has not been initialized. 4213 16915 Address Master setpoint generator address A group (e.g. FIFO group) does not have a master setpoint generator or the setpoint generator address has not been initialized. There may not be enough memory available. 4214 16916 Address Axis interface NC to PLC address Group/axis does not have an axis interface from the NC to the PLC, or the axis interface address has not been initialized. 4215 16917 Address Slave axis address An existing master/slave coupling is to be removed from the group, but there is no valid address for the slave axis. 4216 16918 Address Table unknown The table, respectively the table ID, is unknown. This table is used for the master/slave coupling or for the characteristic curve. 4217 16919 Address Nc Control address The Nc Control address has not been initialized. 4218 16920 Initialization Command lock because persistent NC data is waiting to be transferred Axis is blocked for commands while waiting for valid I/O data to accept the queued persistent NC data. 4219 16921 Function The scaling mode MASTER-AUTOOFFSET is invalid because no reference table was found. The scaling mode MASTER-AUTOOFFSET used is invalid in this context because no reference to an existing reference table can be established. This error can occur, for example, when tables are added if no unique reference to an existing reference table can be established (e.g. because the reference is not unique, etc.). 421A 16922 Parameter The master axis start position does not permit synchronization. 16 Version: 2.3.4 NC Errors
## Page 17

Overview of NC Errors Error(Hex) Error(Dec) Error type Description When a slave axis is being coupled on, the position of the master axis does not permit synchronization at the given synchronization positions. 421B 16923 Parameter Slave coupling factor (gear ratio) of 0.0 is not allowed. A master/slave coupling with a gear ratio of 0.0 is being created. This value is not allowed, since it does not correspond to any possible coupling, and division will generate an FPU exception. 421C 16924 Function Insertion of master axis into group is not allowed. A master axis is to be inserted into a group at a location that is already occupied by another master axis. Maybe the reconfiguration cannot be done, because this axis has got an existing slave coupling. This master/slave coupling must be revoked before. 421D 16925 Function Deletion of master axis from group not allowed (internal error). A master axis is to be removed from a location in a group that is not in fact occupied by master axis. 421E 16926 Function Function/feature is not supported from the setpoint generator. A function or feature is not supported from the setpoint generation (e.g. PTP master setpoint generator). This can be in general or only in a special situation. 421F 16927 Initialization Group initialization The group has not been initialized. Although the group has been created, the rest of the initialization has not been performed (1. initialization group I/O, 2. initialization group, 3. reset group). 4220 16928 Monitoring Group not ready / group not ready for new task The group is being given a new task while it is still in the process of executing an existing task. This request is not allowed because it would interrupt the execution of the previous task. The new task could, for example, be a positioning command, or the "set actual position" function. Precisely the converse relationships apply for the "set new end position" function. In that case, the group/axis must still be actively moving in order to be able to cause a change in the end position. 4221 16929 Monitoring Requested target velocity is not allowed. The value requested for the target velocity of a positioning task is less than or equal to zero, larger than the "maximum velocity" (see axis parameters), or, in the case of servo drives, is larger than the "reference velocity" of the axis (see drive parameters). 4222 16930 Monitoring Requested target position is not allowed (master axis). The requested value for the target position of a positioning task is not within the software end positions. In other words, it is either less than the minimum software end position or larger than the maximum software end position. This check is only carried out if the relevant end position monitoring is active. 4223 16931 Monitoring No enable for controller and/or feed (master axis) The axis enables for the master axis needed for positioning are not present. This can involve the controller enable and/ or the relevant, direction-dependent feed enable (see axis interface Plc To Nc). NC Errors Version: 2.3.4 17
## Page 18

Overview of NC Errors Error(Hex) Error(Dec) Error type Description 4224 16932 Monitoring Travel path smaller than one encoder increment (internal error) The travel path that a group/axis is supposed to move is smaller than the physical significance of one encoder increment. In other words the movement is smaller than the scaling factor of the axis. The reaction to this is that the axis is reported as having logically finished without having actively moved. This means that an external error is not generated for the user. This error is also issued for rapid/slow traverse axes if a looping distance with nonzero parameters is smaller than the sum of the creeping and braking distances. In such a case it is not meaningful to either exceed or to fail to reach the target position. 4225 16933 Monitoring Drive hardware not ready to operate at axis start During an axis start it is ascertained that the drive hardware is not ready to operate. This can be caused by the following reasons: - the drive is in error state (hardware error) - the drive is in the start-up phase (e.g. after an axis reset preceded by a hardware error) - the drive lacks the controller enable (ENABLE) The time required for the "start-up" of a drive after a hardware error can be in the range of several seconds. 4226 16934 Monitoring The parameters of the emergency stop are invalid. Either, both, the deceleration and the jerk are less than zero or one of the parameters is weaker than the corresponding parameter of the start data. 4227 16935 Function Setpoint generator not active The setpoint generator is inactive such that no instructions are accepted. 4228 16936 Monitoring Requested travel path/looping distance is not allowed The requested travel path or looping distance is smaller than the braking distance of the rapid/slow traverse axis. 4229 16937 Monitoring Requested target position is not allowed (slave axis) The value for the target position of a positioning task when calculated for the slave axis is not within the software end positions. In other words, it is either less than the minimum software end position or larger than the maximum software end position. This check is only carried out if the relevant end position monitoring is active. 422A 16938 Monitoring No enable for controller and/or feed (slave axis) The axis enables for one or more coupled slave axes needed for positioning are not present. This can involve the controller enable and/or the relevant, direction-dependent feed enable (see axis interface Plc To Nc). 422B 16939 Parameter The activation position (position threshold) is out of range of the actual positioning The activation position (position threshold) of a new axis command (e.g. "new velocity activated at a position") is out of range. E.g. the activation position is before the actual position or behind the target position. 422C 16940 Parameter The start or activation data of the external setpoint generation are not valid 18 Version: 2.3.4 NC Errors
## Page 19

Overview of NC Errors Error(Hex) Error(Dec) Error type Description This may be caused through: 1. The external setpoint generation is active and a new activation with a start type (1: absolute, 2: relative) unequal to the current one is send. 2. The internal setpoint generation is active (e.g. PTP) and the external one is activated with the start type absolute (2 setpoint generators of the type absolute are not possible). 422D 16941 Parameter Velocity is not constant For changing the dynamic parameter 'acceleration' und 'deceleration' the axis has to be in dynamic state without acceleration and deceleration (that means constant velocity). 422E 16942 Parameter Jerk less than or equal to 0.0 is not allowed A value less than or equal to 0.0 for the jerk (PTP and CNC) is not allowed, since the jerk is by definition positive, and with a jerk of 0.0, division will generate an FPU exception. 422F 16943 Parameter Acceleration less than or equal to 0.0 is not allowed A value less than or equal to 0.0 for the acceleration (PTP and CNC) is not allowed, since the acceleration is positive by definition, and an acceleration of 0.0 will not allow a motion to be generated. 4230 16944 Parameter Absolute deceleration value less than or equal to 0.0 is not allowed A value less than or equal to 0.0 for the absolute value of the deceleration (PTP and CNC) is not allowed, since the absolute value of the deceleration is positive by definition, and an absolute value of the deceleration of 0.0 will not allow a motion to be generated. 4231 16945 Parameter Target velocity less than or equal to 0.0 is not allowed A value less than or equal to 0.0 or outside the range from 10-3 up to 10+10 for the target velocity (PTP and CNC) is not allowed, since the target velocity is by definition strictly positive, and with a target velocity of 0.0, division will generate an FPU exception. 4232 16946 Monitoring Loss of resolution accuracy for requested positioning The positioning is so long in space or time that decimal places become irrelevant and inaccuracies may occur during positioning (LOSS_OF_PRECISION). 4233 16947 Parameter Cycle time less than or equal to 0.0 is not allowed A value less than or equal to 0.0 for the cycle time (PTP and CNC) is not allowed, since the cycle time is by definition strictly positive, and with a cycle time of 0.0, division will generate an FPU exception. 4234 16948 Internal PTP data type <intasdouble> range exceeded Such extreme parameters have been supplied for the start task, the override or the new target position that the internal data type loses its precision. 4235 16949 Function PTP LHL velocity profile cannot be generated (internal error) Such extreme parameters have been supplied for the start task, the override or the new target position that it is not possible to generate a velocity profile of the type LHL (Low- High-Low). 4236 16950 Function PTP HML velocity profile cannot be generated (internal error) NC Errors Version: 2.3.4 19
## Page 20

Overview of NC Errors Error(Hex) Error(Dec) Error type Description Such extreme parameters have been supplied for the override or the new target position that it is not possible to generate a velocity profile of the type HML (High-Middle- Low). 4237 16951 Address Start data address is invalid The address of the start data is invalid. 4238 16952 Parameter Velocity override (start override) is not allowed The value for the velocity override is not allowed, because it is less than 0.0% or more than 100.0% (see axis interface Plc To Nc). Here, 100.0 % corresponds to the integral value 1000000 in the axis interface. Value range: [0 ... 1000000] 4239 16953 Parameter Start type not allowed The start type supplied does not exist. 423A 16954 Monitoring Velocity overshoot The new dynamics with the parameterized jerk is so weak that a velocity overshoot is imminent under given boundary conditions. The command is therefore not supported. 423B 16955 Parameter Start parameter for the axis structure is invalid External or internal parameters for the start structure for a positioning task are invalid. Thus, for instance, the scaling factor, the SAF cycle time or the requested velocity may be less than or equal to zero, which is not allowed. 423C 16956 Parameter Override generator initialization parameter invalid One of the override generator (re)initialization parameters is invalid. 423D 16957 Monitoring Slave axis has not setpoint generator (internal error) It is found that a slave axis within a group does not have a valid slave generator (setpoint generator). A slave axis and a slave setpoint generator must always be present as a pair. This is an internal error. 423E 16958 Function Table is empty Either the SVB table or the SAF table does not contain any entries. 423F 16959 Function Table is full The SVB table or the SAF table has no more free lines. 4240 16960 Memory No memory available The SVB memory allocation for the dynamic entry in SAF table has failed. 4241 16961 Function Table already contains an entry (internal error) The SAF table entry was canceled because an entry already exists by mistake. 4242 16962 Function Stop is already active The stop instruction is not forwarded, because it has already been activated. 4243 16963 Function Compensation has not been carried out over the full compensation section The compensations start parameters do not permit compensation over the full section to be compensated. For this reason the compensation will be carried out over a smaller section. 4244 16964 Parameter Internal parameters for the compensation are invalid (internal error) 20 Version: 2.3.4 NC Errors
## Page 21

Overview of NC Errors Error(Hex) Error(Dec) Error type Description Invalid internal parameters or start parameters of the lower- level generator 4245 16965 Function Compensation active The start of the compensation was refused, because the compensation is already active or the master/slave axis is not moved actively at all, which makes an execution of the compensation impossible. 4246 16966 Function Compensation not active The stop of the compensation was denied because the compensation is not active. 4247 16967 Function Compensation type invalid The type supplied for the section compensation is invalid. At the present time only compensation type 1 (trapezoidal velocity profile) is allowed. 4248 16968 Function Axis address for compensation invalid (internal error) The address of the master of slave axis on which the section compensation is to act is invalid. This is an internal error. 4249 16969 Address Invalid slave address (internal error) The specified slave address for online coupling/decoupling is invalid. 424A 16970 Function Coupling velocities not allowed The velocity of what is to become the master axis is 0, which means that online coupling is not possible. 424B 16971 Function Coupling velocities not constant The velocity of what is to become the master axis and the velocity of what is to become the slave axis are not constant, so that on-line coupling is not possible. 424C 16972 Parameter Cycle time less than or equal to 0.0 is not allowed A value less than or equal to 0.0 for the cycle time (Slave) is not allowed, since the cycle time is by definition strictly positive, and with a cycle time of 0.0, division will generate an FPU exception. 424D 16973 Function Decoupling task not allowed The slave axis is of such a type (e.g. a table slave) or is in such a state (master velocity 0) that online decoupling is not possible. 424E 16974 Function Function not allowed The function cannot logically be executed, e.g. some commands are not possible and not allowed for slave axes. 424F 16975 Parameter No valid table weighting has been set The weighting factor of each table is 0, so that no table can be read. 4250 16976 Function Axis start type, actual position type or end position type not allowed The start type for a positioning task in invalid. Valid start types are: ABSOLUTE (1), RELATIVE (2), ENDLESS POSITIVE (3), ENDLESS NEGATIVE (4), MODULO (5), NC Errors Version: 2.3.4 21
## Page 22

Overview of NC Errors Error(Hex) Error(Dec) Error type Description , etc. Furthermore, it is possible that the types for setting a new actual position or moving to a new end position are invalid. 4251 16977 Function Function is not supported An NC function has been activated that is currently not released for use, or which is not even implemented. This can be a command which is not possible or not allowed for master axes. 4252 16978 Monitoring State of state machine invalid (internal error) The state for one of the internal state machines is invalid. This is an internal error. 4253 16979 Monitoring PLC reference cam became free too soon During the referencing process for an axis it is moved in the direction of the PLC referencing cam, and is only stopped again when the cam signal is reached. After the axis has then also physically stopped, the referencing cam must remain occupied until the axis subsequently starts back down from the cam in the normal way. 4254 16980 Monitoring Distance monitoring between activation of the hardware latch and appearance of the I/O sync pulse When the distance monitoring is active, a check is kept on whether the number of increments between activation of the hardware latch and occurrence of the sync pulse (zero pulse) has become smaller than a pre-set value. If this case has occurred, this error will be generated (see parameters for the incremental encoder). 4255 16981 Memory No memory available The dynamic memory allocation for the setpoint generator, the SVB table or the SAF table has failed. 4256 16982 Monitoring The table slave axis has no active table Although the table slave axis has tables, none of the tables is designated as active. If this occurs during the runtime the whole master/slave group is stopped by a runtime error. 4257 16983 Function Function not allowed The requested function or the requested task is not logically allowed. An example for such an error message would be "set an actual position" for an absolute encoder (M3000, KL5001, etc.). 4258 16984 Function Stopping compensation not allowed It is not possible to stop the compensation, since compensation is already in the stopping phase. 4259 16985 Function Slave table is being used The slave table cannot be activated, because it is currently being used. 425A 16986 Function Master or slave axis is processing a task (e.g. positioning command) while coupling is requested A master/slave coupling of a certain slave type (e.g. linear coupling) cannot be executed, because either the master axis or the future slave axis is not at standstill, but executes a task (e.g. a positioning) at the coupling time. For this couple type this is not allowed. 425B 16987 Parameter Slave (start) parameter is incorrect 22 Version: 2.3.4 NC Errors
## Page 23

Overview of NC Errors Error(Hex) Error(Dec) Error type Description One of the slave start/coupling parameters is not allowed (Coupling factor is zero, the master position scaling of a cam plate is zero, etc.). 425C 16988 Parameter Slave type is wrong The slave type does not match up to the (SVB) start type. 425D 16989 Function Axis stop is already active The axis stop/Estop is not initiated, because the stop is already active. 425E 16990 Function Maximum number of tables per slave generator reached The maximum number of tables per slave generator is reached (e.g. "MC_Multi Cam In" is limited to 4 tables). 425F 16991 Function The scaling mode is not allowed The used scaling is invalid in this context. Either the mode is not defined or not yet implemented or it cannot be implemented in this constellation. For example, the MASTER-AUTOOFFSET mode cannot be used if relative coupling is performed, since there is a contradiction here. Furthermore, the MASTER-AUTOOFFSET mode cannot be used when coupling for the first time, since no reference to an existing reference table coupling (reference table) can be established here. 4260 16992 Monitoring Controller enable The controller enable for an axis or for a coupled slave axis is not present (see axis interface Plc To Nc). This error occurs if the controller enable is withdrawn while an axis or a group of axes (also a master/slave group) is being actively positioned. The error also occurs if a PTP axis or a coupled slave axis is started without controller enable. 4261 16993 Function Table not found No table exists with the ID prescribed or the table ID is not unique. 4262 16994 Function Incorrect table type The table referred to in the function is of the incorrect type. 4263 16995 Function Single step mode This error occurs if single step mode is selected for a group or axis and a new task is requested while one of the individual tasks is still being processed. 4264 16996 Function Group task unknown (asynchronous table entry) The group has received a task whose type or sub-type is unknown. Valid tasks can be single or multi-dimensional positioning tasks (Geo 1D, Geo 3D), referencing tasks, etc. 4265 16997 Function Group function unknown (synchronous function) The group has received a function whose type is unknown. Valid functions are "Reset", "Stop", "New end position", "Start/stop section compensation", "Set actual position", "Set/reset calibration state" etc. 4266 16998 Function Group task for slave not allowed Group tasks are usually only possible for master axes, not for slave axes. A slave axis only moves as an indirect result of a positioning task given to its associated master axis. A slave cannot therefore receive an order directly. Exception: see axis parameter "Allow motion commands for slave axes" NC Errors Version: 2.3.4 23
## Page 24

Overview of NC Errors Error(Hex) Error(Dec) Error type Description 4267 16999 Function Group function for slave not allowed Group functions are in principle only possible for master axes, not for slave axes. The only exception is represented by the "Start/stop section compensation" function, which is possible both for masters and for slaves. A slave cannot directly execute any other functions beyond this. 4268 17000 Function NCI setpoint generator is inactive An NCI command such as "Stop And Keep" is sent to a logically inactive DXD group or to a group with the channel override state zero. However, it is expected that the NCI group is actively in setpoint generation for the implementation of this command. This error can occur in connection with the functions "delete distance to go" and "measurement event (latch actual position)". 4269 17001 Parameter Start position = target position Invalid position parameters. 426A 17002 Parameter Parameters of the delay-generator are invalid Invalid external/internal parameters of the delay generator (delay time, cycle time, tics) 426B 17003 Parameter External parameters of the compensation are invalid Invalid external parameters of the superimposed functionality (acceleration, deceleration, velocity, process velocity, length) 426C 17004 Parameter Invalid override type The selected override type is invalid. 426D 17005 Function Activation position under/overrun The requested activation position is located in the past of the master (e.g. when exchanging a cam plate). 426E 17006 Function Activation impossible: Master at standstill The required activation of the correction is impossible since the master axis is not moving. An accurate synchronization is not possible, because the master axis is at standstill and the slave axis is not yet synchronized. 426F 17007 Function Activation mode not possible The requested activation mode is not possible when the slave axis is moving. Otherwise, the slave dynamics would be abruptly set to zero. 4270 17008 Parameter Start parameter of the compensation invalid One of the dynamic parameters of the compensation is invalid (necessary condition): acceleration (>0) deceleration (>0) process velocity (>0) 4271 17009 Parameter Start parameter of the compensation invalid Velocity overshoot is negative. 4272 17010 Parameter Start parameter of the compensation invalid The section on which the compensation is to occur is not positive. 4273 17011 Monitoring Target position under/overrun (internal error) The position (calculated from the modulo target position) where the axis should stand at end of oriented stop has been run over. 4274 17012 Monitoring Target position will be under/overrun (internal error) 24 Version: 2.3.4 NC Errors
## Page 25

Overview of NC Errors Error(Hex) Error(Dec) Error type Description The position designated for the end of the oriented stop (calculated from the modulo target position) is too close and will be overrun. 4275 17013 Parameter Group parameter is invalid A group parameter is invalid. This can be, for example, a parameterized velocity, acceleration, deceleration, jerk or NC cycle time whose value has been parameterized to be less than or equal to zero. 4276 17014 Monitoring Group error at the start of the setpoint generation When starting the setpoint generation, e.g. for the flying saw, different parameters or states can lead to this error. For example, dynamic parameters such as acceleration, deceleration and jerk may be invalid (less than or equal to zero), or the NC cycle time or the override value may be outside the range of 0-100 % at the start. 4277 17015 Monitoring Dynamic parameters not permitted (internal error) The dynamic parameters resulting from internal calculation like acceleration, deceleration and jerk are not permitted. 4279 17017 Monitoring New target position is invalid or cannot be reached A newly commanded target position is invalid, since it has either already been passed over or is passed over during a stop with the momentarily acting dynamics. 427A 17018 Monitoring New travel velocity or final velocity is invalid For a new command, either the required travel velocity or the required final velocity (target velocity in the target position) is invalid. The travel velocity must always be greater than zero and the final velocity must always be greater than or equal to zero (default case is zero). 427B 17019 Monitoring New final velocity or new target position is invalid For a new command, either the requested final velocity (target velocity in the target position) or the requested target position is invalid. The final velocity must always be greater than or equal to zero (default case is zero). 427C 17020 Monitoring New travel velocity is invalid A newly commanded travel velocity is invalid because it is either less than or equal to zero or other reasons do not allow this velocity. 427D 17021 Monitoring Internal start mode is invalid The start mode is invalid for a new command or is not permitted in this travel situation. A user cannot directly influence the start mode. 427E 17022 Monitoring A requested movement command could not be realized (BISECTION) A requested movement command could not be realized using the requested parameters. The movement command has been executed best possible and this message is therefore to be understood just as a warning. Examples: An axis start is requested in motion in an unfavorable dynamic situation (acceleration phase) in which the travel distance is too short or the velocity is significantly too high. Another possibility is a slave axis that is decoupled during movement in an unfavorable dynamic situation and then given a start command, as in the previous case. 427F 17023 Monitoring The new target position either has been overrun or will be overrun NC Errors Version: 2.3.4 25
## Page 26

Overview of NC Errors Error(Hex) Error(Dec) Error type Description The new target position either has been overrun or will be overrun, since until there it is impossible to stop. An internal stop command is commended. 4280 17024 Monitoring Group not ready / group not ready for new task (internal error / information) The group is being given a new task while it is still in the process of executing an existing task. This request is not allowed because it would interrupt the execution of the previous task. The new task could, for example, be a positioning command, or the "set actual position" function. Precisely the converse relationships apply for the "set new end position" function. In that case, the group/axis must still be actively moving in order to be able to cause a change in the end position. 4281 17025 Parameter Parameters of the oriented stop are not allowed. The modulo target position must not be lower than zero and not greater than or equal to the encoder modulo period (e.g. in the interval [0.0,360.0] ). Even in case of an error, the axis is stopped safely, but then it is not at the desired oriented position afterwards. 4282 17026 Monitoring The modulo target position of the modulo-start is invalid. The modulo target position is outside of the valid parameter range. So the position value should not be lower than zero and not greater or equal than the encoder modulo-period (e.g. in the interval [0.0,360.0] for the modulo start type "SHORTEST_WAY" (261)). 4283 17027 Parameter The activation mode is not allowed. The activation mode may have been used for online change, scaling, as well as for online change of the motion function. However, the activation mode used is not valid in this context. Either the mode is not defined or not yet implemented or it cannot be implemented in this constellation (e.g. if linear tables with an illegal cyclic activation mode NEXTCYCLE or NEXTCYCLEONCE are used). In other cases the mode is valid in principle, but the command cannot be implemented because the function already executes a task. 4284 17028 Parameter The parameterized jerk rate is not allowed. The jerk rate is smaller than the minimum jerk rate. The minimum jerk rate is 1.0 (e.g. mm/s^3). 4285 17029 Parameter The parameterized acceleration or deceleration is not permitted. The parameterized acceleration or deceleration is lower than the permitted minimum acceleration. The value for minimum acceleration is calculated from minimum jerk rate and NC cycle time (minimum jerk rate multiplied with NC cycle time). The unit for example is mm/s^2. 4286 17030 Parameter The parameterized velocity is not permitted. The parameterized target velocity is lower than the minimum velocity (but the value zero is permitted). The value for minimum velocity is calculated from the minimum jerk rate and the NC cycle time (minimum jerk rate multiplied with the square of the NC cycle time). The unit for example is mm/s. 4287 17031 Monitoring Activation cannot be executed due to a pending activation. 26 Version: 2.3.4 NC Errors
## Page 27

Overview of NC Errors Error(Hex) Error(Dec) Error type Description An activation, such as "Cam In", "Cam Scaling" or "Write Motion Function" cannot be executed due to a pending activation (e.g. "Cam In", "Cam Scaling", "Write Motion Function"). There can only be one activation at a time. 4288 17032 Monitoring Illegal combination of different cycle times within an axis group Within a logical axis group, different cycle times have been recognized for the common setpoint generation or for the I/ O processing of an axis. This situation can occur both when creating a master/slave coupling and when configuring a 3D or FIFO group (inserting main, additional or slave axes). 4289 17033 Monitoring Invalid axis motion reversal Due to the current dynamic state (current velocity, acceleration and jerk) a motion reversal would be caused. To avoid this motion reversal the axis command is not performed and the previous system state restored. 428A 17034 Monitoring Illegal command timing, because another instruction with future activation position is active. A command cannot be accepted because another command with a future activation position is already valid at this time (e.g. "Approaching a new velocity from an activation position" or "Reaching a new velocity at an activation position"). 428B 17035 Monitoring Stop-calculation routine (internal error) Due to an internal error in the stop-calculation routine the current commando cannot be performed. The previous system state is restored. 428C 17036 Monitoring A command with activation position cannot fully be performed because the remaining path is too short. A command with activation position (threshold) like "approaching a new velocity at a position" can be just partially executed because the path from the actual position to the activation position is too short. 428D 17037 Monitoring Invalid decouple type The command to release a slave coupling with subsequent restart command has been called with an invalid decoupling or restart type. 428E 17038 Monitoring Illegal target velocity when decoupling a slave axis The command to release a slave coupling with subsequent restart command has been called with an impermissible target velocity [1 < V < Vmax]. 428F 17039 Monitoring Activation new dynamic parameters cannot be performed. The command to activate new dynamic parameters such as acceleration, deceleration and jerk cannot be executed, as this would require a new assigned travel velocity. This error situation can occur, for example, if the axis is close to the target position in the accelerated state and the dynamics parameters are reduced. 4290 17040 Monitoring A command with activation position cannot be executed because the axis is already in the brake phase. NC Errors Version: 2.3.4 27
## Page 28

Overview of NC Errors Error(Hex) Error(Dec) Error type Description A command with activation position (threshold) e.g. "approaching new velocity at position" cannot be executed because the axis is already in the brake phase and the remaining path from the actual position to the activation position is too short. 4291 17041 Monitoring Jerk scaling of the decouple routine when decoupling a slave axis cannot find a valid solution. Internal jerk scaling of decouple routine cannot evaluate a valid solution (decoupling slave axis and transform to master axis). Otherwise, an unexpected velocity overshoot, motion reversal or exceeding of the target position could occur. 4292 17042 Monitoring Command cannot be executed because the command buffer is full. The command is rejected because the command buffer is full filled. 4293 17043 Internal Command is rejected due to an internal error in the Look Ahead (internal error). The command is rejected due to an internal error in the "look ahead". 4294 17044 Monitoring Command is rejected because the new travel velocity cannot be implemented. The command is rejected, because the new travel velocity (target velocity) Vrequ is not realizable and an internal optimizing is impossible. 4295 17045 Monitoring Successive commands have the same end position. Successive commands have the same end position. So the travel path is zero. 4296 17046 Monitoring Logical direction of travel of the axis is inconsistent with the parameterized direction of travel of the buffer command. In the extended buffer mode, where the actual end position is replaced by the new buffer start position, the logical positioning direction is inconsistent with the direction of the buffer command (=> contradiction). A buffered command (Buffer Mode, Blending Low, Blending Previous, Blending Next, Blending High) is rejected with error 0x4296 if the command is using the Beckhoff specific optional Blending Position but the blending position is located beyond the target position of the previous motion command. 4297 17047 Monitoring Command is rejected because the remaining distance in the current segment is too short. The remaining distance for positioning is not sufficient, therefore the command cannot be executed. This can be the case, for example, in the Buffer Mode (Blending Mode), if the remaining distance in the current segment is not sufficient to travel without acceleration and to have reached a specified velocity at the segment change (depending on the Buffer Mode). 429A 17050 Function Restart failed. There is already a motion command in the PTP command buffer and another new motion command, which should modify the existing command by a restart, has failed. 429B 17051 Monitoring Group error for invalid start parameters 28 Version: 2.3.4 NC Errors
## Page 29

Overview of NC Errors Error(Hex) Error(Dec) Error type Description This error refers to a wrong parameterization of the user (group error). For example, dynamic parameters such as Velo, Acc or Dec could be less than or equal to zero. Other error cases: - Base Frequence < 0.0 - Start Frequence < 1.0 - Step Count < 1, Step Count > 200 - Base Amplitude <= 0.0 - Step Duration <= 0.0 - Stop Frequence >= 1/(2*Cycle Time) 429C 17052 Monitoring PLC referencing cam is not found. During the referencing process for an axis it is moved in the direction of the PLC referencing cam. This referencing cam, however, was not found as expected (=> leads to the abortion of the referencing procedure). 429D 17053 Monitoring PLC referencing cam has not been released again. During the referencing process for an axis it is moved in the direction of the PLC referencing cam, and is only stopped again when the cam signal is reached. After the axis has also come to a physical standstill, the axis is subsequently started regularly from the cam again. In this case, the reference cam did not become free again as expected when driving down (=> leads to the abortion of the referencing procedure). 429E 17054 Monitoring I/O sync pulse was not found (only when using hardware latch). If the hardware latch is activated, a sync pulse (zero pulse) is expected to be found and a sync event triggered following the expiry of a certain time or a certain distance. If this is not the case, the reaction is an error and the abortion of the referencing procedure. 429F 17055 Function The used buffer mode is unknown or not supported in this context. The buffer mode used for a PTP command (e.g. ABORTING, etc.) is unknown or not supported in this context. 42A0 17056 Internal Group/axis consequential error Consequential error resulting from another causative error related to another axis within the group. Group/axis consequential errors can occur in relation to master/slave couplings or with multiple axis interpolating DXD groups. If, for example, it is detected that the lag error limit of a master axis has been exceeded, then this consequential error is assigned to all the other master axes and slave axes in this group. 42A1 17057 Parameter Velocity reduction factor for C0/C1 transition is not allowed A C0 transition describes two geometries which, while they are themselves continuous, no not have either continuous first or second differentials. The velocity reduction factor C0 acts on such transitions. A C1 transition is characterized by the fact that the two geometries have a continuous course, but are continuously differentiable only once. The velocity reduction factor C1 acts on such transitions. Value range: [0.0 ... 1.0] Unit: 1 42A2 17058 Parameter Critical angle at segment transition not allowed NC Errors Version: 2.3.4 29
## Page 30

Overview of NC Errors Error(Hex) Error(Dec) Error type Description The angle at the segment transition is not allowed. Value range: [0.0 ... 180.0] Unit: degrees 42A3 17059 Parameter Radius of the tolerance sphere The radius of the tolerance sphere is outside the permitted range of values. Value range: [0.0 ... 100.0] Unit: e.g. mm 42A4 17060 Parameter Reserved Reserved, not currently used 42A5 17061 Parameter Start type Value range: [0,1] Unit: 1 42A6 17062 Parameter Reserved Reserved, not currently used 42A7 17063 Parameter Blending Blending is not possible with the given parameters. 42A8 17064 Parameter Reserved Reserved, not currently used 42A9 17065 Parameter Curve velocity reduction method not allowed (internal error) The curve velocity reduction method does not exist. 42AA 17066 Parameter Minimum velocity not allowed The minimum velocity that has been entered is less than 0.0. 42AB 17067 Parameter Power function input not allowed (internal error) The input parameters in the power_() function lead to an FPU exception. 42AC 17068 Parameter Dynamic change parameter not allowed A parameter that regulates the change of dynamics is invalid. Parameter: 1. Absolute path dynamics change: all parameters must be strictly positive. 2. Relative reduction c_f: 0.0 < c_f <= 1.0 42AD 17069 Memory Memory allocation error (internal error) An error occurred during memory allocation. 42AE 17070 Function End position (internal error). The calculated end position differs from the end position in the NC block 42AF 17071 Parameter Calculate remaining path length invalid value Value range: [0,1] 42B0 17072 Function Setpoint generator SVB active Starting the setpoint generator (SVB, SAF) has been refused, since the SVB task is already active. 42B1 17073 Parameter SVB parameter not allowed (internal error) A parameter related to the internal structure of the setpoint generator (SVB) results in logical errors and/or to an FPU exception. Affects these parameters: Minimum velocity (>0.0), Time Mode, Mode Dyn, Mode Geo, Start Type, Distance To End, TBall Radius. 42B2 17074 Parameter Velocity reduction factor not allowed 30 Version: 2.3.4 NC Errors
## Page 31

Overview of NC Errors Error(Hex) Error(Dec) Error type Description A parameter that regulates the reduction of velocity at segment transitions is invalid. Parameter: 1. Once continuously differentiable transitions: Velo Vertex Factor C1 2. Not continuously differentiable transitions: Velo Vertex Factor C0 Critical Vertex Angle Low, Critical Vertex Angle High. 42B3 17075 Parameter Helix is a circle The helix has degenerated to a circle, and should be entered as such. 42B4 17076 Parameter Helix is a straight line The helix has degenerated to a straight line, and should be entered as such. 42B5 17077 Parameter Guider parameter not allowed One of the guider's parameters leads to logical errors and/or to an FPU exception. 42B6 17078 Address Invalid segment address (internal error) The geometry segment does not have a valid geometry structure address or does not have a valid dynamic structure address. 42B7 17079 Parameter Not parameterized generator (internal error) The SVB generator is not yet parameterized and is therefore unable to operate. 42B8 17080 Address Not parameterized table (internal error) The table has no information concerning the address of the corresponding dynamic generator. 42BA 17082 Internal Arc length of the smoothed path (internal error) The calculation of the arc length of the smoothed path. 42BB 17083 Parameter Tolerance sphere The radius of the tolerance sphere is too small (smaller than 0.1 mm). 42BC 17084 Internal DXD software end positions (internal error) An error has occurred in the calculation of the DXD software end positions. 42BD 17085 Function NC block violates software end positions of the group. At least one path axis with active software end position monitoring has violated the limit switches. Therefore the geometric entry is denied with an error. 42BE 17086 Parameter A path axis violates the end position. At least one path axis with active position limit monitoring violates the limit switches. 42BF 17087 Parameter Reference velocity type is invalid. 42C0 17088 Internal Interpolating group contains axes of an incorrect axis type. An interpolating 3D group may only contain continuously guided axes of axis type 1 (SERVO). 42C1 17089 Internal Scalar product cannot be calculated The length of one of the given vectors is 0.0. 42C2 17090 Internal Inverse cosine cannot be calculated The length of one of the given vectors is 0.0. NC Errors Version: 2.3.4 31
## Page 32

Overview of NC Errors Error(Hex) Error(Dec) Error type Description 42C3 17091 Parameter Table entry type invalid The given table entry type is unknown. 42C4 17092 Parameter Invalid DIN66025 information type (internal error) The given DIN66025 information type is unknown. Known types: G0, G1, G2, G3, G17, G18, G19. 42C5 17093 Parameter Dimension invalid (internal error) The CNC dimension is unknown. Known dimensions: 1, 2, 3. Or: The CNC dimension is invalid for the given geometrical object. For a circle the dimension must be 2 or 3, while for a helix it must be 3. 42C6 17094 Parameter Geometrical object is not a straight line. The given object, interpreted as a straight line, has a length of 0.0. 42C7 17095 Parameter Geometrical object is not a circle. Interpreted as a circular arc, the given object has a length of 0.0, or an angle of 0.0 or a radius of 0.0. 42C8 17096 Parameter Geometrical object is not a helix. Interpreted as a circular arc, the given object has a length of 0.0, an angle of 0.0, a radius of 0.0 or a height of 0.0. 42C9 17097 Parameter Target velocity less than or equal to 0.0 is invalid. A value less than or equal to 0.0 for the target velocity (CNC) is not allowed, since the target velocity is positive by definition, and a target velocity of 0.0 cannot generate any motion. 42CA 17098 Address Address for look-ahead invalid (internal error) The address supplied for the look-ahead is invalid. 42CB 17099 Function SAF setpoint generator already active Starting the setpoint generator (SAF) has been refused, since the SAF task is already active. 42CC 17100 Function CNC setpoint generation not active The stop or override change was denied because the setpoint generation is not active. 42CD 17101 Function CNC setpoint generation in the stop phase The stop or override change was denied because the setpoint generation is in the stop phase. 42CE 17102 Parameter Override not allowed An override of less than 0.0 % or more than 100.0 % is invalid. 42CF 17103 Address Table address invalid (internal error) The table address given for the initialization of the setpoint generator is invalid, or no valid logger connection (report file) is present. 42D0 17104 Parameter Table entry type invalid The given table entry type is unknown. 42D1 17105 Memory Memory allocation failed The memory allocation for a table failed. 42D2 17106 Memory Memory allocation failed The memory allocation for a filter failed. 42D3 17107 Parameter Parameter invalid Filter parameter is not allowed. 32 Version: 2.3.4 NC Errors
## Page 33

Overview of NC Errors Error(Hex) Error(Dec) Error type Description 42D4 17108 Function Delete Distance to go not possible Delete Distance to go (only interpolation) failed. This error occurred, if e.g. the command 'Del DTG' was not programmed in the actual movement of the NC program. 42D5 17109 Internal The setpoint generator of the flying saw generates incompatible values (internal error). 42D6 17110 Function Axis will be stopped since otherwise it will overrun its target position (old PTP setpoint generator). If, for example, in case of a slave to master transformation for the new master a target position is commanded that will be overrun because of the actual dynamics the axis will be stopped internally to guarantee that the target position will not be overrun (old PTP setpoint generator). 42D7 17111 Function Internal error in the transformation from slave to master 42D8 17112 Function Wrong direction in the transformation of slave to master 42DA 17114 Parameter Parameters of Motion Function (MF) table incorrect. The parameters of the Motion Function (MF) are invalid. This may refer to the first time created data set or to online changed data. 42DB 17115 Parameter Parameters of Motion Function (MF) table incorrect The parameters of the Motion Function (MF) are invalid. This can refer to the data set created for the first time or to data changed online. The cause of the error may be that, for example, an active MF point (i.e. not an IGNORE point) points to a passive MF point (i.e. IGNORE point). 42DC 17116 Monitoring Internal error by using Motion Function (MF) An internal error occurs by using the Function (MF). This error cannot be solved by the user. Please ask the Twin CAT Support. 42DD 17117 Function Axis coupling with synchronization generator declined because of incorrect axis dynamic values The axis coupling with the synchronization generator has been declined, because one of the slave dynamic parameter (machine data) is incorrect. Either the maximum velocity, the acceleration, the deceleration or the jerk is smaller or equal to zero, or the expected synchronous velocity of the slave axis is higher as the maximum allowed slave velocity. 42DE 17118 Function Coupling conditions of synchronization generator not allowed. If the direction of travel of the master axis is positive, the master synchronous position must be greater than the master coupling position ("i.e. lie in the future"). With negative master travel direction, the master synchronous position must be smaller than the master coupling position. 42DF 17119 Monitoring Motion profile of synchronization generator declines dynamic limit of slave axis or required characteristic of profile. One of the parameterized checks has detected an exceeding of the dynamic limits (max. velocity, max. acceleration, max. deceleration or max. jerk) of the slave axis or a profile property (e.g. overshoot or undershoot in NC Errors Version: 2.3.4 33
## Page 34

Overview of NC Errors Error(Hex) Error(Dec) Error type Description position or velocity) is not allowed. See also additional/further messages in the Windows Event Viewer and in the message window of the Twin CAT development environment. 42E0 17120 Parameter Parameter invalid The encoder generator parameter is not allowed. 42E1 17121 Parameter Parameter invalid The external (FIFO) generator parameter is not allowed. 42E2 17122 Function External generator is active. The external generator cannot be started, as it is already active. 42E3 17123 Function External generator is not active. The external generator cannot be stopped, as it is not active. 42E4 17124 Function NC block with auxiliary axis violates software limit switches of the group. At least one auxiliary axis with active software end position monitoring has violated the limit switches. Therefore the geometric entry is denied with an error. 42E5 17125 Function NC block of Bezier curve (Bezier spline) type contains a singularity The Bezier curve (Bezier spline) has a peak, i.e. at an inner point both the curvature and the magnitude of the velocity strive towards zero in such a way that the radius of curvature is infinite. The Bezier curve should be divided at exactly this point according to the "Casteljau algorithm". This preserves the geometry and eliminates the interior singularity. 42E7 17127 Parameter Value for dead time compensation not allowed The value for the dead time compensation in seconds for a slave coupling to an encoder axis (virtual axis) is not allowed. Value range: [0.0 ... 60.0] Unit: s 42E8 17128 Parameter Internal error GROUPERR_RANGE_NOMOTIONWINDOW Value range: [0.0 ... 1000.0] Unit: e.g. mm/s 42E9 17129 Parameter Internal error GROUPERR_RANGE_NOMOTIONFILTERTIME Value range: [0.0 ... 60.0] Unit: s 42EA 17130 Parameter Internal error GROUPERR_RANGE_TIMEUNITFIFO Value range: [0.0 ... 1000.0] Unit: s 42EB 17131 Parameter Internal error GROUPERR_RANGE_OVERRIDETYPE Value range: [1, 2] Unit: 1 42EC 17132 Parameter Internal error GROUPERR_RANGE_OVERRIDECHANGETIME Value range: [0.0 ... 1000.0] Unit: s 42ED 17133 Parameter Internal error GROUPERR_FIFO_INVALIDDIMENSIO 34 Version: 2.3.4 NC Errors
## Page 35

Overview of NC Errors Error(Hex) Error(Dec) Error type Description The FIFO dimension (number of axes) has been increased from 8 to 16 from Twin CAT 2.11 Build 1547. Value range: [1 ... 8] resp. [1 ... 16] Unit: 1 (number of axes) 42EE 17134 Address Internal error GROUPERR_ADDR_FIFOTABLE 42EF 17135 Monitoring Axis is locked for motion commands because a stop command is still active. The axis/group is locked for motion commands because a stop command is still active. This lock can be released by calling the stop command with Execute=FALSE or by an axis reset (see also MC_Stop and MC_Reset in Tc MC2. Lib). 42F0 17136 Parameter Number of auxiliary axes invalid The local number of auxiliary axes does not tally with the global number of auxiliary axes. 42F1 17137 Parameter Reduction parameter for auxiliary axes invalid The velocity reduction parameters for the auxiliary axes are inconsistent. 42F2 17138 Parameter Dynamic parameters for auxiliary axes invalid The dynamic parameters for the auxiliary axes are inconsistent. 42F3 17139 Parameter Coupling parameters for auxiliary axes invalid The coupling parameters for the auxiliary axes are inconsistent. 42F4 17140 Parameter Auxiliary axis entry invalid The auxiliary axis entry is empty (no axis motion). 42F6 17142 Parameter Parameter invalid The limit for velocity reduction of the auxiliary axes is invalid. It has to be in the interval [0..1]. 42F8 17144 Parameter Block Search - segment not found The segment specified as parameter could not be found until the end of the NC program. Possible cause: - n Block Id is not specified in the mode described by e Block Search Mode. - 0 is not a valid n Block Id. 42F9 17145 Parameter Blocksearch - Invalid remaining segment length The remaining distance in the f Length parameter is incorrectly parameterized. 42FB 17147 Internal Internal error in connection with coupled axes (slave axes) Internal fatal error when using coupled axes (slave axes). Inconsistent internal state. Please contact our Support. 42FC 17148 Parameter Parameter for maximum number of jobs (entries) to be transferred is invalid The parameter describing the maximum number of entries to be transferred from the SVB to the SAF table per NC cycle is invalid. Value range: [1, 20] Unit: 1 42FF 17151 Monitoring Customer-specific error This is a customer-specific monitoring function. NC Errors Version: 2.3.4 35
## Page 36

Overview of NC Errors 2.4 Axis Errors Error(Hex) Error(Dec) Error type Description 4300 17152 Parameter Axis ID not allowed The value for the axis ID is not allowed, e.g. because it has already been assigned, is less than or equal to zero, is greater than 255, or does not exist in the current configuration. Value range: [1 ... 255] Unit: 1 4301 17153 Parameter Axis type not allowed The value for the axis type is not allowed because it is not defined. Type 1: servo Type 2: fast/creep Type 3: stepper motor Value range: [1 ... 3] Unit: 1 4306 17158 Parameter Slow manual velocity not allowed The value for the slow manual velocity is not allowed. Value range: [0.0, 1.0E+10] Unit: e.g. m/min 4307 17159 Parameter Fast manual velocity not allowed The value for the fast manual velocity is not allowed. Value range: [0.0, 1.0E+10] Unit: e.g. m/min 4308 17160 Parameter Rapid traverse velocity not allowed The value for the rapid traverse velocity is not allowed. Value range: [0.0, 1.0E+10] Unit: e.g. m/min 4309 17161 Parameter Axis acceleration not allowed The value for the axis acceleration is not allowed. Value range: [0.001, 1.0E+20] Unit: e.g. m/s/s 430A 17162 Parameter Axis deceleration not allowed The value for the axis deceleration is not allowed. Value range: [0.001, 1.0E+20] Unit: e.g. m/s/s 430B 17163 Parameter Axis jerk not allowed The value for the axis jerk is not allowed. Value range: [0.01, 1.0E+30] Unit: e.g. m/s/s/s 430C 17164 Parameter Delay time between position and velocity is not allowed (dead time compensation). The value for the delay time between position and velocity ("dead time compensation") is not allowed. Value range: [0, 0.1] Unit: s 430D 17165 Parameter Override type not allowed The value for the velocity override type is not allowed as it is not defined. Type 1: Related to internal reduced velocity (default value) Type 2: Related to original external start velocity Value range: [1 ... 4] Unit: 1 430E 17166 Parameter NCI: Velo-Jump-Factor not allowed The value for the velo-jump-factor ("Velo Jump Factor") is not allowed. This parameter only works for Twin CAT NCI. 36 Version: 2.3.4 NC Errors
## Page 37

Overview of NC Errors Error(Hex) Error(Dec) Error type Description Value range: [0, 1000000] Unit: 1 430F 17167 Parameter NCI: Radius of tolerance sphere for the auxiliary axis is invalid It was tried to enter an invalid value for the size of the tolerance sphere. This sphere affects only auxiliary axes! Value range: [0, 1000] Unit: e.g. mm 4310 17168 Parameter NCI: Value for maximum deviation for the auxiliary axis is invalid It was tried to enter an invalid value for the maximum allowed deviation. This parameter affects only auxiliary axes! Value range: [0, 10000] Unit: e.g. mm 4312 17170 Parameter Referencing velocity in direction of cam not allowed The value for the referencing velocity in the direction of the referencing cam is not allowed. Value range: [0.0, 10000.0] Unit: e.g. m/min 4313 17171 Parameter Referencing velocity in sync direction not allowed The value for the referencing velocity in the direction of the sync pulse (zero track) is not allowed. Value range: [0.0, 10000.0] Unit: e.g. m/min 4314 17172 Parameter Pulse width in positive direction not allowed The value for the pulse width in the positive direction is not allowed (pulsed operation). The use of the pulse width for positioning is chosen implicitly through the axis start type. Pulsed operation corresponds to positioning with a relative travel path that corresponds precisely to the pulse width. Value range: [0.0, 1000000.0] Unit: e.g. mm 4315 17173 Parameter Pulse width in negative direction not allowed The value for the pulse width in the negative direction is not allowed (pulsed operation). The use of the pulse width for positioning is chosen implicitly through the axis start type. Pulsed operation corresponds to positioning with a relative travel path that corresponds precisely to the pulse width. Value range: [0.0, 1000000.0] Unit: e.g. mm 4316 17174 Parameter Pulse time in positive direction not allowed The value for the pulse width in the positive direction is not allowed (pulsed operation). Value range: [0.0, 600.0] Unit: s 4317 17175 Parameter Pulse time in negative direction not allowed The value for the pulse width in the negative direction is not allowed (pulsed operation). Value range: [0.0, 600.0] Unit: s 4318 17176 Parameter Creep distance in positive direction not allowed The value for the creep distance in the positive direction is not allowed. Value range: [0.0, 100000.0] Unit: e.g. mm 4319 17177 Parameter Creep distance in negative direction not allowed NC Errors Version: 2.3.4 37
## Page 38

Overview of NC Errors Error(Hex) Error(Dec) Error type Description The value for the creep distance in the negative direction is not allowed. Value range: [0.0, 100000.0] Unit: e.g. mm 431A 17178 Parameter Braking distance in positive direction not allowed The value for the braking distance in the positive direction is not allowed. Value range: [0.0, 100000.0] Unit: e.g. mm 431B 17179 Parameter Braking distance in negative direction not allowed The value for the braking distance in the negative direction is not allowed. Value range: [0.0, 100000.0] Unit: e.g. mm 431C 17180 Parameter Deceleration time in positive direction not allowed The value for the deceleration time in the positive direction is not allowed. Value range: [0.0, 60.0] Unit: s 431D 17181 Parameter Deceleration time in negative direction not allowed The value for the deceleration time in the negative direction is not allowed. Value range: [0.0, 60.0] Unit: s 431E 17182 Parameter Switching time from rapid to slow traverse not allowed The value for the time to switch from rapid to slow traverse is not allowed. Value range: [0.0, 60.0] Unit: s 431F 17183 Parameter Creep distance for stop not allowed The value for the creep distance for an explicit stop is not allowed. Value range: [0.0, 100000.0] Unit: e.g. mm 4320 17184 Parameter Motion monitoring not allowed The value for the activation of the motion monitoring is not allowed. Value range: [0, 1] Unit: 1 4321 17185 Parameter Position window monitoring not allowed The value for the activation of the position window monitoring is not allowed. Value range: [0, 1] Unit: 1 4322 17186 Parameter Target window monitoring not allowed The value for the activation of target window monitoring is not allowed. Value range: [0, 1] Unit: 1 4323 17187 Parameter Loop not allowed The value for the activation of loop movement is not allowed. Value range: [0, 1] Unit: 1 4324 17188 Parameter Motion monitoring time not allowed The value for the motion monitoring time is not allowed. 38 Version: 2.3.4 NC Errors
## Page 39

Overview of NC Errors Error(Hex) Error(Dec) Error type Description Value range: [0.0, 600.0] Unit: s 4325 17189 Parameter Target window range not allowed The value for the target window is not allowed. Value range: [0.0, 10000.0] Unit: e.g. mm 4326 17190 Parameter Position window range not allowed The value for the position window is not allowed. Value range: [0.0, 10000.0] Unit: e.g. mm 4327 17191 Parameter Position window monitoring time not allowed The value for the position window monitoring time is not allowed. Value range: [0.0, 600.0] Unit: s 4328 17192 Parameter Looping distance not allowed The value for the looping distance is not allowed. Value range: [0.0, 10000.0] Unit: e.g. mm 4329 17193 Parameter Axis cycle time not allowed The value for the axis cycle time is not allowed. Value range: [0.001, 0.1] Unit: s 432A 17194 Parameter Operation mode stepper motor not allowed The value for the stepper motor operating mode is not allowed. Value range: [1, 2] Unit: 1 432B 17195 Parameter Displacement per stepper motor step not allowed The value for the displacement associated with one step of the stepper motor is not allowed (step scaling). Value range: [0.000001, 1000.0] Unit: e.g. mm/ STEP 432C 17196 Parameter Minimum velocity for stepper motor set value profile not allowed The value for the minimum velocity of the stepper motor velocity profile is not allowed. Value range: [0.0, 1000.0] Unit: e.g. m/min 432D 17197 Parameter Stepper motor stages for one velocity level not allowed The value for the number of steps for each velocity level in the setpoint generation is not allowed. Value range: [0, 100] Unit: 1 432E 17198 Parameter DWORD for the interpretation of the axis units not allowed The value that contains the flags for the interpretation of the position and velocity units is not allowed. Value range: [0, 0x FFFFFFFF] Unit: 1 432F 17199 Parameter Maximum velocity not allowed The value for the maximum permitted velocity is not allowed. Value range: [0.001, 1.0E+10] Unit: e.g. m/min 4330 17200 Parameter Motion monitoring window not allowed The value for the motion monitoring window is not allowed. NC Errors Version: 2.3.4 39
## Page 40

Overview of NC Errors Error(Hex) Error(Dec) Error type Description Value range: [0.0, 10000.0] Unit: e.g. mm 4331 17201 Parameter PEH time monitoring not allowed The value for the activation of the PEH time monitoring is not allowed (PEH: positioning end and halt). Value range: [0, 1] Unit: 1 4332 17202 Parameter PEH monitoring time not allowed The value for the PEH monitoring time (timeout) is not allowed (PEH: positioning end and halt). Default value: 5 s Value range: [0.0, 600.0] Unit: s 4333 17203 Parameter Parameter "Brake Release Delay" is invalid The parameter for the brake release delay of a rapid/slow traverse axis is invalid. Value range: [0.0, 60.0] Unit: s 4334 17204 Parameter Parameter NC Data Persistence is invalid The boolean parameter NC Data Persistence of an axis is invalid. Value range: [0, 1] Unit: 1 4335 17205 Parameter Parameter for the error reaction mode is invalid. The parameter for the error reaction mode of the axis is invalid (instantaneous, delayed). Value range: [0, 1] Unit: 1 4336 17206 Parameter Parameter for the error reaction delay is invalid The parameter for the error reaction delay of the axis is invalid. Value range: [0.0, 1000.0] Unit: s 4337 17207 Parameter Parameter "Use actual values in deactivated state" is invalid. The parameter "Use actual values in deactivated state" is invalid. Value range: [0, 1] Unit: 1 4338 17208 Parameter Parameter "Allow motion commands for slave axes" is invalid. The boolean parameter "Allow motion commands for slave axes" is invalid. This parameter determines whether a motion command may be sent to a slave axis or whether this is rejected with an NC error 0x4266 or 0x4267. Value range: [0, 1] Unit: 1 4339 17209 Parameter Parameter "Allow motion commands for axis in external setpoint generation" is invalid. The boolean parameter "Allow motion commands for axis in external setpoint generation" is invalid. This parameter determines whether a motion command may be sent to an axis in the external setpoint generation state or whether this is rejected with an error 0x4257. Value range: [0, 1] Unit: 1 433A 17210 Parameter Parameter "Fading Acceleration" is invalid. 40 Version: 2.3.4 NC Errors
## Page 41

Overview of NC Errors Error(Hex) Error(Dec) Error type Description The "Fading Acceleration" parameter for the fading profile from SET to ACTUAL values is invalid. This parameter defines how to fade from a setpoint based axis coupling to an actual value based coupling (indirectly results in a time for the fading). The value 0.0 causes the minimum of the default acceleration and default deceleration to be used internally in the NC as the fading acceleration. Value range: [0; 0.01 .. 1.0e+20] Unit: e.g. mm/s^2 Error(Hex) Error(Dec) Error type Description 433B 17211 Parameter Fast Axis Stop signal type not allowed The value for the Signal Type of the 'Fast Axis Stop' is not allowed [0...5]. 433C 17212 Parameter ADS index offset not allowed New value for the 'ADS offset (axis state) ' for user- defined parameter named 'User Data' in Axis Ref is invalid. 4340 17216 Initialization Axis initialization The axis has not been initialized. Although the axis has been created, the rest of the initialization has not been performed (1. Initialization of axis I/O, 2. Initialization of axis, 3. Reset axis). 4341 17217 Address Group address The axis does not have a group, or the group address has not been initialized (group contains the setpoint generation). 4342 17218 Address Encoder address The axis does not have an encoder, or the encoder address has not been initialized. 4343 17219 Address Controller address The axis does not have a controller, or the controller address has not been initialized. 4344 17220 Address Drive address The axis does not have a drive, or the drive address has not been initialized. 4345 17221 Address Axis interface PLC to NC address The axis has no axis interface from the PLC to the NC (Plc To Nc) or the axis interface address has not been initialized. 4346 17222 Address Axis interface NC to PLC address The axis has no axis interface from the NC to the PLC (Nc To Plc) or the axis interface address has not been initialized. 4347 17223 Address Size of the axis interface NC to PLC is not allowed (internal error) The size of the axis interface from NC to PLC (Nc To Plc) is not allowed. 4348 17224 Address Size of the axis interface PLC to NC is not allowed (internal error) The size of the axis interface from PLC to NC (Plc To Nc) is not allowed. NC Errors Version: 2.3.4 41
## Page 42

Overview of NC Errors Error(Hex) Error(Dec) Error type Description 4356 17238 Monitoring Controller enable The controller enable for the axis is not available (see axis interface Plc To Nc). This enable is required, for instance, for an axis positioning task. 4357 17239 Monitoring Feed enable minus A feed enable for movement in the negative direction is not available (see axis interface Plc To Nc). This enable is required, for instance, for an axis positioning task in the negative direction. 4358 17240 Monitoring Feed enable plus A feed enable for movement in the positive direction is not present (see axis interface Plc To Nc). This enable is required, for instance, for an axis positioning task in the positive direction. 4359 17241 Monitoring Target velocity not allowed The target velocity requested for a positioning task is not allowed. This can happen if the velocity is less than or equal to zero, larger than the maximum permitted axis velocity, or, in the case of servo drives, is larger than the reference velocity of the axis (see axis and drive parameters). 435A 17242 Monitoring Movement smaller than one encoder increment (internal error) The movement required of an axis is, in relation to a positioning task, smaller than one encoder increment (see scaling factor). This information is, however, handled internally in such a way that the positioning is considered to have been completed without an error message being returned. 435B 17243 Monitoring Set acceleration monitoring (internal error) The set acceleration has exceeded the maximum permitted acceleration or deceleration parameters of the axis. 435C 17244 Monitoring PEH time monitoring The PEH time monitoring has detected that, after the PEH monitoring time that follows a positioning has elapsed, the target position window has not been reached. The following points must be checked: Is the PEH monitoring time, in the sense of timeout monitoring, set to a sufficiently large value (e.g. 1-5 s)? The PEH monitoring time must be chosen to be significantly larger than the target position monitoring time. Have the criteria for the target position monitoring (range window and time) been set too strictly? The PEH time monitoring only functions when target position monitoring is active! 435D 17245 Monitoring Motion Monitoring The actual position of the axis has not changed or has changed only slightly during the motion monitoring time. To avoid an error, the axis must change by more than the parameterized motion monitoring window in at least one NC cycle during the monitoring time. => Check, whether axis is mechanically blocked, or the encoder system failed. 42 Version: 2.3.4 NC Errors
## Page 43

Overview of NC Errors Error(Hex) Error(Dec) Error type Description 435E 17246 Monitoring Looping distance smaller than braking distance The absolute value of the looping distance is less or equal than the positive or negative braking distance. This is not allowed. 435F 17247 Monitoring Starting velocity not allowed The required starting velocity for a positioning task is not allowed (normally the starting velocity is zero). This can happen if the velocity is less than or equal to zero, larger than the maximum permitted axis velocity, or, in the case of servo drives, is larger than the reference velocity of the axis (see axis and drive parameters). 4360 17248 Monitoring Final velocity not allowed The required final velocity for a positioning task is not allowed (normally the final velocity is zero). This can happen if the velocity is less than or equal to zero, larger than the maximum permitted axis velocity, or, in the case of servo drives, is larger than the reference velocity of the axis (see axis and drive parameters). 4361 17249 Monitoring Time range exceeded (future) The calculated position lies too far in the future (e.g. when converting from a position to an associated DC time). 4362 17250 Monitoring Time range exceeded (past) The calculated position lies too far in the past (e.g. when converting from a position to an associated DC time). 4363 17251 Monitoring Position cannot be determined The requested position cannot be determined mathematically because a) it has never been reached in the past or b) it will never be reached in the future (e.g. if the axis velocity is zero or if a motion reversal occurs due to an acceleration). 4364 17252 Monitoring Position cannot be determined (conflicting direction of travel) The direction of travel expected by the caller of the function deviates from the actual direction of travel (conflict between PLC and NC view, for example when converting a position to a DC time). 4365 17253 Monitoring Position not convertible When converting the position to the incremental position, the maximum range of the encoder is violated. 4370 17264 Monitoring No slave coupling possible (velocity violation) A slave coupling to a master axis (e.g. by a universal flying saw) is rejected because otherwise the maximum velocity of the slave axis would be exceeded (a velocity monitoring has been selected). 4371 17265 Monitoring No slave coupling possible (acceleration violation) A slave coupling to a master axis (e.g. by a universal flying saw) is rejected because otherwise the maximum acceleration of the slave axis would be exceeded (an acceleration monitoring has been selected). 4372 - 438B 17266 - 17291 See TF5055 NC Flying Saw - Error Codes NC Errors Version: 2.3.4 43
## Page 44

Overview of NC Errors Error(Hex) Error(Dec) Error type Description 43A0 17312 Internal Axis consequential error Consequential error resulting from another causative error related to another axis. Axis consequential errors can occur in relation to master/slave-couplings or with multiple axis interpolating DXD groups. 2.5 Encoder Errors Error(Hex) Error(Dec) Error type Description 4400 17408 Parameter Encoder ID not allowed The value for the encoder ID is not allowed, e.g. because it has already been assigned, is less than or equal to zero, or is greater than 255. Value range: [1 ... 255] Unit: 1 4401 17409 Parameter Encoder type not allowed The value for the encoder type is not allowed as it is not defined. Type 1: Simulation (incremental) Type 2: M3000 (24 bit absolute) Type 3: M31x0 (24 bit incremental) Type 4: KL5101 (16 bit incremental) Type 5: KL5001 (24 bit absolute SSI) Type 6: KL5051 (16 bit BISSI) Value range: [1 ... 6] Unit: 1 4402 17410 Parameter Encoder mode The value for the encoder mode (operation mode) is invalid. Mode 1: Determination of actual position Mode 2: Determination of actual position and actual velocity (filter) Value range: [1, 2] Unit: 1 4403 17411 Parameter Encoder count direction The flag for the encoder counting direction is not allowed. Flag 0: Positive encoder count direction Flag 1: Negative encoder count direction Value range: [0, 1] Unit: 1 4404 17412 Initialization Calibration state The flag for the calibration state is not allowed. Flag 0: Axis has is not referenced. Flag 1: Axis is referenced. Value range: [0, 1] Unit: 1 4405 17413 Parameter Encoder increments per physical encoder revolution The value for the number of encoder increments for each physical rotation of the encoder is not allowed. This value is used by the software for the calculation of encoder overruns and underruns. Value range: [255, Unit: INC 0x FFFFFFFF] 4406 17414 Parameter Scaling factor 44 Version: 2.3.4 NC Errors
## Page 45

Overview of NC Errors Error(Hex) Error(Dec) Error type Description The value for the scaling factor is not allowed. This scaling factor provides the weighting for the conversion of an encoder increment (INC) to a physical unit such as millimeters or degrees. Value range: [0.000001, Unit: e.g. mm/INC 100.0] 4407 17415 Parameter Position offset (zero point offset) The value for the position offset of the encoder is not allowed. This value is added to the calculated encoder position, and is interpreted in the physical units of the encoder. Value range: [-1000000.0, Unit: e.g. mm 1000000.0] 4408 17416 Parameter Modulo factor The value for the encoder's modulo factor is not allowed. Value range: [1.0, 1.0E+9] Unit: e.g. mm or degrees 4409 17417 Parameter Position filter time The value for the actual position filter time is not allowed (P-T1 filter). Value range: [0.0, 60.0] Unit: s 440A 17418 Parameter Velocity filter time The value for the actual velocity filter time is not allowed (P-T1 filter). Value range: [0.0, 60.0] Unit: s 440B 17419 Parameter Acceleration filter time The value for the actual acceleration filter time is not allowed (P-T1 filter). Value range: [0.0, 60.0] Unit: s 440C 17420 Initialization Cycle time not allowed (internal error) The value of the SAF cycle time for the calculation of actual values is not allowed (e.g. is less than or equal to zero). 440D 17421 Initialization Setting of the selected units is invalid Settings for modulo position, velocity etc. lead to an error. 440E 17422 Parameter Actual position correction / measurement system error correction The value for the activation of the actual position correction ("measuring system error correction") is not allowed. Value range: [0, 1] 440F 17423 Parameter Filter time actual position correction The value for the actual position correction filter time is not allowed (P-T1 filter). Value range: [0.0, 60.0] Unit: 1 4410 17424 Parameter Search direction for referencing cam inverted The value of the search direction of the referencing cam in a referencing procedure is not allowed. Value 0: Positive direction Value 1: Negative direction NC Errors Version: 2.3.4 45
## Page 46

Overview of NC Errors Error(Hex) Error(Dec) Error type Description Value range: [0, 1] Unit: 1 4411 17425 Parameter Search direction for sync pulse (zero pulse) inverted The value of the search direction of the sync pulse (zero pulse) in a referencing procedure is not allowed. Value 0: Positive direction Value 1: Negative direction Value range: [0, 1] Unit: 1 4412 17426 Parameter Reference position The value of the reference position in a referencing procedure is not allowed. Value range: [-1000000.0, Unit: e.g. mm 1000000.0] 4413 17427 Parameter Distance monitoring between activation of the hardware latch and occurrence of the sync pulse (obsolete) The flag for the distance monitoring between activation of the hardware latch and occurrence of the sync/zero pulse ("latch valid") is not allowed. Value 0: Passive Value 1: Active Value range: [0, 1] Unit: 1 4414 17428 Parameter Minimum gap between activation of the hardware latch and occurrence of the sync pulse (obsolete) The value for the minimum gap in increments between activation of the hardware latch and occurrence of the sync/zero pulse ("latch valid") during a referencing procedure is not allowed. Value range: [0, 65536] Unit: INC 4415 17429 Parameter External sync pulse (obsolete) The value of the activation or deactivation of the external sync pulse in a referencing procedure is not allowed. Value 0: Passive Value 1: Active Value range: [0, 1] Unit: 1 4416 17430 Parameter Scaling of the noise rate is not allowed The value of the scaling (weighting) of the synthetic noise rate is not allowed. This parameter exists only in the simulation encoder and serves to produce a realistic simulation. Value range: [0, 1000000] Unit: 1 4417 17431 Parameter Tolerance window for modulo-start The value for the tolerance window for the modulo-axis-start is invalid. The value must be greater or equal than zero and smaller than the half encoder modulo-period (e.g. in the interval [0.0,180.0]). Value range: [0.0, 180.0], Unit: e.g. mm or Max: 0.5*modulo period degrees 4418 17432 Parameter Encoder referencing mode 46 Version: 2.3.4 NC Errors
## Page 47

Overview of NC Errors Error(Hex) Error(Dec) Error type Description The value for the encoder reference mode is not allowed, resp. is not supported for this encoder type. Value range: [0, 5] Unit: 1 4419 17433 Parameter Encoder evaluation direction The value for the encoder evaluation direction (log. counting direction) is not allowed. Value range: [0, 3] Unit: 1 441A 17434 Parameter Encoder absolute dimensioning system The value for the encoder reference system is invalid: 0: INCREMENTAL 1: ABSOLUTE 2: ABSOLUTE+MODULO Value range: [0, 2] Unit: 1 441B 17435 Parameter Encoder position initialization mode When starting the TC system the value for the encoder position initialization mode is invalid. Value range: [0, 1] Unit: 1 441C 17436 Parameter Encoder sign interpretation (UNSIGNED / SIGNED data type) The value for the encoder sign interpretation (data type) for the encoder the actual increment calculation is invalid: 0: default/not defined 1: UNSIGNED 2: SIGNED Value range: [0, 2] Unit: 1 441D 17437 Parameter Homing Sensor Source The value for the Encoder Homing Sensor Source is invalid or not supported for this encoder type. Value range: [0, 16] Unit: 1 4420 17440 Parameter Software end position monitoring minimum not allowed The value for the activation of the software end position monitoring minimum is not allowed. Value range: [0, 1] Unit: 1 4421 17441 Parameter Software end position monitoring maximum not allowed The value for the activation of the software end position monitoring maximum is not allowed. Value range: [0, 1] Unit: 1 4422 17442 Function Actual value setting is outside the value range. The "Set actual value" function cannot be executed because the new actual position is outside the intended value range. Value range: [-1.0E10, Unit: e.g. mm 1.0E10] 4423 17443 Parameter Software end position minimum not allowed The value for the software end position minimum is not allowed. NC Errors Version: 2.3.4 47
## Page 48

Overview of NC Errors Error(Hex) Error(Dec) Error type Description Value range: Unit: e.g. mm [-1000000000.0, 1000000000.0] 4424 17444 Parameter Software end position maximum not allowed The value for the software end position maximum is not allowed. Value range: Unit: e.g. mm [-1000000000.0, 1000000000.0] 4425 17445 Parameter Filter mask for the encoder raw value not allowed The value for the filter mask of the encoder raw value in increments is not allowed. Value range: [0x0, Unit: 1 0x FFFFFFFF] 4426 17446 Parameter Reference mask for the encoder raw value not allowed The value for the reference mask (increments per encoder revolution, absolute resolution) of the encoder raw value in increments is not allowed. This value is used, for example, for referencing an axis with the "Software Sync" referencing mode. Value range: [0x0000000F, Unit: 1 0x FFFFFFFF] 4427 17447 Parameter Parameter "Dead time compensation mode" (encoder) is invalid. The parameter for the dead time compensation mode on the NC encoder is invalid (OFF, ON with velocity, ON with velocity and acceleration). Value range: [0, 1, 2] Unit: 1 4428 17448 Parameter Parameter 'Control bits of the dead time compensation' (encoder) is invalid. The parameter for the control bits of the dead time compensation at the encoder is invalid (e.g. relative or absolute time interpretation). Value range: [>0] Unit: 1 4429 17449 Parameter Parameter 'time shift of dead time compensation mode' (encoder) is invalid. The parameter for the time shift of the dead time compensation (Time Shift in nanoseconds) at the encoder is invalid. Value range: [-1.0E9 .. Unit: ns 1.0E9] 4430 17456 Function Hardware latch activation (encoder) Activation of the encoder hardware latch was implicitly initiated by the referencing procedure. If this function has already been activated but a latch value has not yet become valid ("latch valid"), another call to the function is refused with this error. 4431 17457 Function Activation of external hardware latch / touch probe function (encoder) 48 Version: 2.3.4 NC Errors
## Page 49

Overview of NC Errors Error(Hex) Error(Dec) Error type Description The activation of the external hardware latch (only available for KL5101, SERCOS, AX2xxx) is initiated explicitly by an ADS command (called from the PLC program of the Visual Basic interface). If this function has already been activated, but the latch value has not yet been made valid by an external signal ("external latch valid" or "touch probe latched" or "real-time status bit"), another call to the function is refused with this error. It is also possible that this function cannot be executed because of another simultaneous function, such as referencing an incremental encoder axis. 4432 17458 Function External hardware latch activation (encoder) If a referencing procedure has previously been initiated and the hardware still signals a valid latch value ("latch valid"), this function must not be called. However, this error can never actually occur in practice. 4433 17459 Function Activation of external hardware latch / touch probe function (encoder) This function has been activated before and has not been finished since (the internal handshake communication between NC and I/O device is still active). In the meantime, a renewed activation is not allowed and is therefore rejected with an error. If this function has already been triggered before and the hardware still signals that the external latch value is already valid ("external latch valid" or "touch probe" or "real-time status bit"), a renewed activation must not be executed. In this case, the validity of the external hardware latch would be signaled immediately by mistake (but still with an old latch value). 4434 17460 Monitoring Encoder function is not supported An encoder function has been activated that is currently not released for use, or which is not even implemented. 4435 17461 Monitoring Encoder function is already active An encoder function cannot been activated because this functionality is already active. 4440 17472 Initialization Encoder initialization Encoder has not been initialized. Although the axis has been created, the rest of the initialization has not been performed: 1. Initialization of axis I/O 2. Initialization of axis 3. Reset axis 4441 17473 Address Axis address The encoder does not have an axis, or the axis address has not been initialized. 4442 17474 Address Address I/O input structure Drive has no valid I/O input address in the process image. 4443 17475 Address Address I/O output structure NC Errors Version: 2.3.4 49
## Page 50

Overview of NC Errors Error(Hex) Error(Dec) Error type Description The encoder does not have a valid I/O output address in the process image. 4450 17488 Monitoring Encoder counter underflow monitoring The encoder's incremental counter has underflowed. 4451 17489 Monitoring Encoder counter overflow monitoring The encoder's incremental counter has overflowed. 4460 17504 Monitoring Minimum software position limit (axis start) While monitoring for the minimum software position limit is active, an axis start has been performed on a position that is below the minimum software position limit. 4461 17505 Monitoring Maximum software position limit (axis start) While monitoring for the maximum software position limit is active, an axis start has been performed on a position that is above the maximum software position limit. 4462 17506 Monitoring Minimum software position limit (positioning process) While monitoring for the minimum software position limit is active, the actual position has fallen below the minimum software position limit. For servo axes - they are continuously guided - this limit is extended by the amount of the parameterized lag error window. 4463 17507 Monitoring Maximum software position limit (positioning process) While monitoring for the maximum software position limit is active, the actual position has exceeded the maximum software position limit. For servo axes - they are continuously guided - this limit is extended by the amount of the parameterized lag error window. 4464 17508 Monitoring Encoder hardware error The drive resp. the encoder system reports a hardware error of the encoder. An optional error code can probably be found in the message in the event display. 4465 17509 Monitoring Position initialization error at system startup When the actual position was initialized for the first time, it was outside the minimum and maximum end positions for all three initialization attempts (without overflow/underflow, with underflow/overflow). 4466 17510 Monitoring Invalid I/O data for more than n continuous NC cycles (encoder) The axis (encoder) has detected invalid encoder I/O data for more than n continuous NC cycles (NC SAF task) (e.g. n=3). Typically, an Ether CAT device is a "Working Counter Error" (Wc State), which shows that the data transmission between I/O device and controller is disturbed. 50 Version: 2.3.4 NC Errors
## Page 51

Overview of NC Errors Error(Hex) Error(Dec) Error type Description If this error is continuously present for a longer period of time, then this can lead to the loss of the referencing of the axis (the "Homed" flag is reset and the encoder gets the state "unreferenced"). Possible reasons for this error: An Ether CAT slave may have left its OP state, the real-time load on the controller is too high or the real-time jitter is too high. 4467 17511 Monitoring Invalid actual position (encoder) The I/O device returns an invalid actual position (for CANopen/Co E see bit 13 of encoder state "Tx PDO data invalid" or "invalid actual position value"). 4468 17512 Monitoring Invalid I/O input data (error type 1) The monitoring of the "cyclic I/O input counter" (2-bit counter) has detected an error. The input data has not been updated for at least 3 NC-SAF cycles (the 2-bit counter shows a constant value for several NC-SAF cycles instead of increasing by exactly 1 from cycle to cycle). 4469 17513 Monitoring Invalid I/O input data (error type 2) The monitoring of the "cyclic I/O input counter" (2-bit counter) has detected an error. The quality of the input data, based on the 2-bit counter, is not sufficient (there is a simple statistical evaluation here that evaluates both GOOD cases and BAD cases and leads to an error if a specific threshold value is exceeded). 4470 17520 Monitoring SSI transformation faulty or not finished The SSI transformation of the FOX 50 module was faulty for some NC-cycles or did not finished respectively. 44A2 17570 Monitoring Internal error ENCERR_ADDR_CONTROLLER 44A3 17571 Monitoring Internal error ENCERR_INVALID_CONTROLLERTYPE 2.6 Controller Errors Error(Hex) Error(Dec) Error type Description 4500 17664 Parameter Controller ID not allowed The value for the controller ID is not allowed, e.g. because it has already been assigned, is less than or equal to zero, or is greater than 255. Value range: [1 ... 255] Unit: 1 4501 17665 Parameter Controller type not allowed The value for the controller type is unacceptable because it is not defined. Type 1: P-controller (position) Type 7: Fast/creep controller Type 8: Stepper motor controller Type 9: Sercos controller NC Errors Version: 2.3.4 51
## Page 52

Overview of NC Errors Error(Hex) Error(Dec) Error type Description Value range: [1 ... 9] Unit: 1 4502 17666 Parameter Operation mode controller not allowed The value for the controller operating mode is not allowed. Value range: [1] Unit: 1 4503 17667 Parameter Weighting of the velocity pre-control not allowed The value for the percentage weighting of the velocity pre-control is not allowed. The parameter is pre-set to 1.0 (100%) as standard. Value range: [0.0 ... 1.0] Unit: % 4504 17668 Parameter Lag error monitor (position) not allowed The value for the activation of the lag error monitor is not allowed. Value range: [0, 1] Unit: 1 4505 17669 Parameter Lag monitoring (velocity) not allowed The value for the activation of the lag error monitoring (velocity) is not allowed. Value range: [0, 1] Unit: 1 4506 17670 Parameter Lag error window (position) not allowed The value for the lag error window (maximum allowable lag error) is not allowed. Value range: [0.0, Unit: e.g. mm 10000.0] 4507 17671 Parameter Lag error filter time (position) not allowed The value for the lag error filter time (position) is not allowed. Value range: [0.0, 600.0] Unit: s 4508 17672 Parameter Lag error window (velocity) not allowed The value for the lag error window (velocity) is not allowed. Value range: [0.0, Unit: e.g. m/min 10000.0] 4509 17673 Parameter Lag error filter time (velocity) not allowed The value for the lag error filter time (velocity) is not allowed. Value range: [0.0, 600.0] Unit: s 450A 17674 Parameter Controller output limitation (output limitation) not allowed The value for the output limitation of the controller at the total manipulated variable is invalid. The default setting is 0.5 (50 percent). Typically, this parameter is effective if the velocity interface has been parameterized for the drive unit and the NC executes the position control of the position on the controller. Value range: [0.0, 1.0] Unit: % 4510 17680 Parameter Proportional gain Kv or Kp (controller) not allowed Position The value for the proportional gain (Kv factor or Kp factor) is not allowed. 52 Version: 2.3.4 NC Errors
## Page 53

Overview of NC Errors Error(Hex) Error(Dec) Error type Description Value range: [0.0, Unit: e.g. mm/s/mm 10000.0] 4511 17681 Parameter Integral action time Tn (controller) not allowed Position The value for the integral action time is not allowed (I part of the PID T1 controller). Value range: [0.0, 60.0] Unit: s 4512 17682 Parameter Rate time Tv (controller) not allowed Position The value for the derivative action time is not allowed (D part of the PID T1 controller). Value range: [0.0, 60.0] Unit: s 4513 17683 Parameter Damping time Td (controller) not allowed Position The value for the damping time is not allowed (D part of the PID T1 controller). Value range: [0.0, 60.0] Unit: s 4514 17684 Function Activation of the automatic offset calibration not allowed Activation of the automatic offset calibration is only possible for certain types of controller (with no I component). 4515 17685 Parameter Additional proportional gain Kv or Kp (controller) not allowed Position The value for the second term of the proportional gain (Kv factor or Kp factor) is not allowed. Value range: [0.0, Unit: e.g. mm/s/mm 10000.0] 4516 17686 Parameter Reference velocity for additional proportional gain Kv or Kp (controller) not allowed Position The value for the reference velocity percentage data entry, to which the additional proportional gain is applied, is not allowed. The standard setting for the parameter is 0.5 (50%). Value range: [0.0 ... 1.0] Unit: % 4517 17687 Parameter Proportional gain Pa (proportion) not allowed Acceleration The value for the proportional gain (Pa factor) is not allowed. Value range: [0.0, Unit: s 1000000.0] 4518 17688 Parameter Proportional gain Kv (controller) not allowed Velocity The value for the proportional gain (Kv factor) is not allowed. Value range: [0.0, Unit: 1 10000.0] 4519 17689 Parameter Integral action time Tn (controller) not allowed Velocity The value for the integral action time is not allowed (I part of the PID T1 controller). Value range: [0.0, 60.0] Unit: s 451A 17690 Parameter Reserved Reserved, currently not used. NC Errors Version: 2.3.4 53
## Page 54

Overview of NC Errors Error(Hex) Error(Dec) Error type Description 451B 17691 Parameter Reserved Reserved, currently not used. 451C 17692 Parameter Velocity filter time not allowed The parameter for the velocity filter time in seconds is invalid (P-T1 filter). This filter can be used in the NC for filtering an actual velocity or a velocity difference (Geschwindigkeitsfehler = Soll- Geschwindigkeit - Ist- Geschwindigkeit) in special NC controllers (e.g. in the torque interface). Value range: [0.0, 60.0] Unit: s 451D 17693 Parameter Dead range not allowed The value for the dead range (neutral zone) of the position error or the velocity error (control deviation) is not allowed (applies to more complex controllers with velocity or torque interface). Value range: [0.0, Unit: mm or mm/s 10000.0] 451F 17695 Parameter Proportional gain Kcp not allowed The parameter for the proportional gain Kcp of the slave coupling difference control is invalid. Value range: [0.0, Unit: e.g. mm^2/mm 10000.0] 4520 17696 Parameter Rate time Tv (controller) not allowed Velocity The value for the derivative action time is not allowed (D part of the PID T1 controller). Value range: [0.0, 60.0] Unit: s 4521 17697 Parameter Damping time Td (controller) not allowed Velocity The value for the damping time is not allowed (D part of the PID T1 controller). Suggested value: 0.1 * Tv Value range: [0.0.. 60.0] Unit: s 4522 17698 Parameter Limitation of the I part not allowed The parameter for limiting the I-part of a PI- or PID-controller is not allowed. This internal state variable can be limited in percentage (1.0 corresponds to 100 percent). Value range: [0.0 .. 1.0] Unit: % 4523 17699 Parameter Limitation of the D part not allowed The parameter for limiting the D-part of a PI- or PID-controller is not allowed. This internal state variable can be limited in percentage (1.0 corresponds to 100 percent). Value range: [0.0 .. 1.0] Unit: % 4524 17700 Parameter Parameter 'Deactivation of the I part during travel' not allowed The boolean parameter for switching off the I- part during active positioning is invalid. Value range: [0, 1] Unit: 1 54 Version: 2.3.4 NC Errors
## Page 55

Overview of NC Errors Error(Hex) Error(Dec) Error type Description 4525 17701 Parameter Parameter 'Filter time for P-T2 filter' not allowed The time T0 in seconds is not permissible as a filter time for the P-T2 element of the velocity controller. The filter time must be less than twice the NC SEC cycle time. Value range: [0.0, 60.0] Unit: s 4526 17702 Parameter Velocity observer: 'Parameterized mode' is not allowed The parameterized mode (0=OFF, 1=LUENBERGER) for the velocity observer of the special NC controller in the torque interface is not permitted. Value range: [0, 1] Unit: 1 4527 17703 Parameter Velocity observer: 'Motor torque constant Kt or Kf' is not allowed The parameter for the motor torque constant Kt (rotary motor) or Kf (linear motor) of the velocity observer of the special NC controller in the torque interface is invalid. Value range: [0.0 .. Unit: Nm/A or N/A 100000.0] 4528 17704 Parameter Velocity observer: 'Motor moment of inertia JM' is not allowed The parameter for the motor moment of inertia J of the velocity observer of the special NC M controller in the torque interface is invalid. Value range: [0.0001 .. Unit: kg cm^2 100000.0] 4529 17705 Parameter Velocity observer: 'Bandwidth f0' is not allowed The parameter for the bandwidth f of the 0 velocity observer of the special NC controller in the torque interface is invalid. The bandwidth must be less than the reciprocal of 6 times the NC cycle time (f < 1/(6*T)). 0 Value range: [0.0 .. Unit: Hz 10000.0] 452A 17706 Parameter Velocity observer: 'Correction factor kc' is not allowed The parameter for the correction factor k of the c velocity observer of the special NC controller in the torque interface is invalid. The correction factor k establishes the relationship between c current and acceleration or angular acceleration. Value range: [0.0 .. 100.0] Unit: s 452B 17707 Parameter Velocity observer: 'Time constant T for 1st order filter' is not allowed The time constant T for the 1st order velocity filter (PID-T or "Lead Lag") of the velocity 2 observer of the special NC controller in the torque interface is not allowed. The correction NC Errors Version: 2.3.4 55
## Page 56

Overview of NC Errors Error(Hex) Error(Dec) Error type Description factor k establishes the relationship between c current and acceleration or angular acceleration. Value range: [0.0 .. 100.0] Unit: s 452C 17708 Parameter Velocity observer: 'Amplitude damping d for 2nd order filter' is not allowed The high-pass/low-pass amplitude attenuation d or d for the 2nd order velocity filter ("bi- HP TP quad") of the velocity observer of the special NC controller in the torque interface is not allowed. Value range: [0.2 .. 10.0] Unit: 1 452D 17709 Parameter Velocity observer: 'Frequency f HP or f TP for 2nd order filter' is not allowed The high-pass/low-pass frequency f or f for HP TP the 2nd order velocity filter ("bi-quad") of the velocity observer of the special NC controller in the torque interface is not allowed. Value range: [0.0, ... Unit: Hz 10000.0] 4540 17728 Initialization Controller initialization The controller has not been initialized. Although the controller has been created, the rest of the initialization has not been performed (1. Initialization of controller, 2. Reset of controller). 4541 17729 Address Axis address The controller does not know its axis, or the axis address has not been initialized. 4542 17730 Address Drive address The controller does not know its drive, or the drive address has not been initialized. 4550 17744 Monitoring Lag error monitor (position) While the lag error monitor was active (position), the lag error was exceeded by an amount greater than the lag error window and which lasting longer than the parameterized lag error filter time. 4551 17745 Monitoring Lag monitoring (velocity) With active lag error monitoring (velocity) a velocity lag error exceedance has occurred, whose magnitude is greater than the lag error window, and whose duration is longer than the parameterized lag error filter time. 45A0 17824 Monitoring Internal error CONTROLERR_RANGE_AREA_ASIDE 45A1 17825 Monitoring Internal error CONTROLERR_RANGE_AREA_BSIDE 45A2 17826 Monitoring Internal error CONTROLERR_RANGE_QNENN 45A3 17827 Monitoring Internal error CONTROLERR_RANGE_PNENN 45A4 17828 Monitoring Internal error CONTROLERR_RANGE_AXISIDPRESP0 56 Version: 2.3.4 NC Errors
## Page 57

Overview of NC Errors 2.7 Drive error Error(Hex) Error(Dec) Error type Description 4600 17920 Parameter Drive ID not allowed The value for the drive ID is not allowed, e.g. because it has already been assigned, is less than or equal to zero, or is bigger than 255. Value range: [1 ... 255] Unit: 1 4601 17921 Parameter Drive type not allowed The value for the drive type is not allowed as it is not defined. Value range: [1, 20] Unit: 1 4602 17922 Parameter Drive operation mode not allowed The value for the drive operation mode is not allowed (mode 1: default). Value range: [1] Unit: 1 4603 17923 Parameter Motor polarity not allowed The flag for the motor polarity is invalid. Flag 0: Positive motor polarity Flag 1: Negative motor polarity Value range: [0, 1] Unit: 1 4604 17924 Parameter Drift compensation/velocity offset (DAC offset) The value for the drift compensation (DAC offset) is impermissible. Value range: [-100.0, 100.0] Unit: e.g. m/min 4605 17925 Parameter Reference velocity (velocity pre-control) The value for the reference velocity (also called velocity pre- control) is impermissible. Value range: [0.0, 10000.0] Unit: e.g. m/min 4606 17926 Parameter Reference output in percent The value for the reference output in percent is impermissible. The value 1.0 (100 %) usually corresponds to a voltage of 10.0 V. Value range: [0.0, 5.0] Unit: % 4607 17927 Parameter Quadrant compensation factor not allowed The value for the quadrant compensation factor is impermissible. Value range: [0.0, 100.0] Unit: 1 4608 17928 Parameter Velocity reference point in percent The value for the velocity reference point in percent is impermissible. The value 1.0 corresponds to 100 percent. Value range: [0.01, 1.0] Unit: % 4609 17929 Parameter Output reference point The value for the output reference point in percent is impermissible. The value 1.0 corresponds to 100 percent. Value range: [0.01, 1.0] Unit: % 460A 17930 Parameter Minimum or maximum output limits (output limitation) The value for the minimum and/or maximum output limit is impermissible. This will happen if the value range is exceeded, the maximum limit is smaller than the minimum limit, or the distance between the minimum and maximum limits is zero. The minimum limit is initially set to –1.0 (-100 percent) and the maximum limit to 1.0 (100 percent). Value range: [-1.0, 1.0] Unit: % NC Errors Version: 2.3.4 57
## Page 58

Overview of NC Errors Error(Hex) Error(Dec) Error type Description 460B 17931 Parameter Parameter 'Maximum value for output' is not allowed The value for the maximum number of output digits of the drive (maximum output value) is not allowed. Depending on the interface used (e.g. position, velocity or torque/current). For a velocity interface this is often a signed 16 bit output value (± 32767). Value range: [0x000000FF .. Unit: INC or Digits 0x FFFFFFFF] 460C 17932 Parameter Parameter 'Internal Drive Control Word' is not allowed The value as internal Drive Control Word for the NC is not allowed. This contains information from the development environment to the NC, which is evaluated by the NC at the TC start. Value range: [>0] Unit: 1 460D 17933 Parameter Parameter 'Internal timer for RESET behavior Drive' is not allowed The special parameter that influences the internal time behavior between NC Drive and the IO Drive (servo drive) is not allowed. Value range: [>5] Unit: 1 (NC SEC cycles) 460E 17934 Parameter Parameter 'Master Motion Controller ID' is not allowed The "Master Motion Controller ID" parameter is not allowed for a further NC Motion Controller in slave mode. An additional NC Motion Controller in slave mode can be used if it is one and the same drive device to which different NC information for different operation modes is connected (e.g. velocity mode and torque mode). This parameter is not directly accessible by the user, but can only be influenced indirectly by configuring additional NC motion controllers underneath the NC axis. Value range: [0 .. 255] Unit: 1 460F 17935 Parameter Drive torque output scaling is not allowed The value is shown as Drive torque output scaling (rotary motor) or as force output scaling (linear motor). Value range: [0, 1000000] Unit: 1 4610 17936 Parameter Drive velocity output scaling is not allowed The value for the drive velocity output scaling is not allowed. Value range: [0, 1000000] Unit: 1 4611 17937 Parameter Profi Drive DSC proportional gain Kpc (controller) not allowed Position The value for the Profi Drive DSC position control gain (Kpc factor) is impermissible. Value range: [0, 0x FFFFFF] Unit: 0.001 * 1/s 4612 17938 Parameter Table ID is not allowed The value for the table ID is impermissible. Value range: [0, 255] Unit: 1 4613 17939 Parameter Table interpolation type is not allowed The value is impermissible as the table interpolation type. Value range: 0 (LINEAR), 2 Unit: 1 (SPLINE) 4614 17940 Parameter Output offset in percent is not allowed The value is impermissible as an output offset in percent (+/- 1.0). 58 Version: 2.3.4 NC Errors
## Page 59

Overview of NC Errors Error(Hex) Error(Dec) Error type Description Value range: [-1.0, 1.0] Unit: % 4615 17941 Parameter Profi Drive DSC scaling for calculation of 'Xerr' (controller) not allowed Position The value is impermissible as Profi Drive DSC scaling for the calculation of 'Xerr'. Value range: [0, 1000000] Unit: 1 4616 17942 Parameter Drive acceleration output scaling not allowed The value is impermissible as drive acceleration/deceleration output scaling. Value range: [0, 1000000] Unit: 1 4617 17943 Parameter Drive position output scaling not allowed The value is impermissible as drive position output scaling. Value range: [0, 1000000] Unit: 1 4618 17944 Parameter Parameter 'Dead time compensation mode' (Motion Controller) is invalid The parameter for the dead time compensation mode of the NC Motion Controller is invalid (OFF, ON with velocity, ON with velocity and acceleration). Value range: [0, 1, 2] Unit: 1 4619 17945 Parameter Parameter 'Control bits of dead time compensation' (motion controller) is invalid The parameter for the "Control bits of the dead time compensation" of the NC motion controller is invalid (e.g. relative or absolute time interpretation). Value range: [>0] Unit: 1 461A 17946 Parameter Parameter 'Time shift of dead time compensation mode' (motion controller) is invalid The parameter for the time shift of the dead time compensation (Time Shift in nanoseconds) of the NC Motion Controller is invalid. Value range: [-1.0E9 .. 1.0E9] Unit: ns 461B 17947 Parameter Parameter 'Output delay velocity interface Motion Controller' is invalid The parameter for an optional output delay in the velocity interface to the Motion Controller is invalid (Delay Generator Velocity). The maximum permitted delay time must be less than 100 times the NC SEC cycle time. Value range: [0.0 .. 0.1] Unit: s 461C 17948 Parameter Drive filter type not allowed for command variable filter for the output position The value is impermissible as a drive filter type for the smoothing of the output position (command variable filter for the setpoint position). Value range: [0, 2] Unit: 1 461D 17949 Parameter Drive filter time not allowed for command variable filter for the output position The value is impermissible as a drive filter time for the smoothing of the output position (command variable filter for the setpoint position). Value range: [0.0, 1.0] Unit: s 461E 17950 Parameter Drive filter order not allowed for command variable filter for the output position NC Errors Version: 2.3.4 59
## Page 60

Overview of NC Errors Error(Hex) Error(Dec) Error type Description The value is impermissible as a drive filter order (P-Tn) for the smoothing of the output position (command variable filter for the setpoint position). Value range: [0, 10] Unit: 1 4620 17952 Parameter Bit mask for stepper motor cycle not allowed A value of the different stepper motor masks is impermissible for the respective cycle. Value range: [0, 255] Unit: 1 4621 17953 Parameter Bit mask for stepper motor holding current not allowed The value for the stepper motor holding mask is impermissible. Value range: [0, 255] Unit: 1 4622 17954 Parameter Scaling factor for actual torque (actual current) not allowed The value is impermissible as a scaling factor for the actual torque (or actual current). Value range: [0, 1E+30] Unit: 4623 17955 Parameter Filter time for actual torque not allowed The value is impermissible as a filter time for the actual torque (or the actual current) (P-T1 filter). Value range: [0.0, 60.0] Unit: s 4624 17956 Parameter Filter time for the time derivative of the actual torque not allowed The value as filter time for the time derivative of the actual torque (or the actual current) is not allowed (P-T1 filter). Value range: [0.0, 60.0] Unit: s 4625 17957 Parameter Parameter 'Drive operation mode' invalid The parameter for the drive operation mode (motion controller operation mode: position mode, velocity mode, torque mode, ...) is invalid. It is possible that an NC operation mode changeover has been attempted or that an attempt was made to activate a preconfigured operation mode during the TC system startup. The generic operation modes defined in the NC are implemented by the NC in a drive-specific manner, i.e. in particular for the SERCOS/ So E and CANopen/ Co E (DS402) protocols. Here, protocol-specific, drive-specific or even vendor-specific features must be taken into account (e.g. with SERCOS/ So E, predefined operation modes can only be activated at runtime in the SERCOS parameters S-0-0032 to S-0-0035). Furthermore, not every generic NC operation mode can be converted into a drive-specific operation mode (there may be gaps in the specification here). The generic NC operation mode 0 is a special case. This value is used as an identifier to activate an NC default mode (if this identifier is known to the NC). Value range: [0, >=1] Unit: 1 4626 17958 Monitoring Motion Controller function is not supported. A Motion Controller functionality has been triggered that is not enabled for use or is not implemented (e.g. writing or reading a drive operation mode that is not supported by certain Motion Controllers). It is also possible that this functionality is only temporarily unavailable (e.g. because the drive device is in error state or a drive enable is missing). 4627 17959 Function DRIVEOPERATIONMODEBUSY The activation of the drive operation mode failed, because another object with OID… is already using this interface. 60 Version: 2.3.4 NC Errors
## Page 61

Overview of NC Errors Error(Hex) Error(Dec) Error type Description 4628 17960 Monitoring Drive operation mode changeover is not configured or the desired drive operation mode cannot be found. No drive operation mode changeover has been configured, and in this respect no reading or writing of a drive operation mode is possible. Or the desired drive operation mode has not been found in the list of predefined drive operation modes (e.g. for So E/ SERCOS). Note for Co E Motion Controllers: Reading or writing the Co E Motion Controller operation mode is only possible if the Co E objects 0x6060 "Modes of operation" and 0x6061 "Modes of operation display" are in the cyclic process data (PDO list) and a valid default operation mode has been configured. Note for So E Motion Controllers: Reading or writing the current So E Motion Controller operation mode is only possible if this operation mode has been predefined in one of the So E parameters S-0-0032 to S-0-0035. 4629 17961 Monitoring Feedback drive operation mode changeover During drive operation mode changeover, the requested operation mode was not consistently reported back within the monitoring time of 8 cycles. Co E-Motion Controllers: Reading or writing the Co E Motion Controller operation mode is only possible if the Co E objects 0x6060 "Modes of operation" and 0x6061 "Modes of operation display" are in the cyclic process data (PDO list) and a valid default operation mode has been configured. So E-Motion Controllers: Reading or writing the current So E Motion Controller operation mode is only possible if this operation mode has been predefined in one of the So E parameters S-0-0032 to S-0-0035. 0x4630 … 0x463F: Error codes are reserved for external drive errors (e.g. stepper motor terminal or MC_Power Stepper function block). 4630 17968 Monitoring Overtemperature Overtemperature was detected or reported in the drive or terminal. 4631 17969 Monitoring Undervoltage Undervoltage was detected or reported in the drive or terminal. 4632 17970 Monitoring Wire break in phase A A wire break in phase A was detected or reported in the drive or terminal. 4633 17971 Monitoring Wire break in phase B A wire break in phase B was detected or reported in the drive or terminal. 4634 17972 Monitoring Overcurrent in phase A Overcurrent was detected or reported in phase A in the drive or terminal. 4635 17973 Monitoring Overcurrent in phase B Overcurrent was detected or reported in phase B in the drive or terminal. 4636 17974 Monitoring Torque overload (stall) A torque overload (stall) was detected or reported in the drive or terminal. 4640 17984 Initialization Drive initialization NC Errors Version: 2.3.4 61
## Page 62

Overview of NC Errors Error(Hex) Error(Dec) Error type Description Drive has not been initialized. Although the drive has been created, the rest of the initialization has not been performed: 1. Initialization drive I/O 2. Initialization drive 3. Reset drive 4641 17985 Address Axis address The drive does not know its axis, or the axis address has not been initialized. 4642 17986 Address Address I/O input structure The drive has no valid I/O input address in the process image. 4643 17987 Address Address I/O output structure The drive has no valid I/O output address in the process image. 4650 18000 Monitoring Drive hardware not ready to operate The drive hardware is not ready for operation. This can be caused by the following reasons: - the drive is in error state (hardware error) - the drive is in the start-up phase (e.g. after an axis reset preceded by a hardware error) - the drive lacks the controller enable (ENABLE). The time required for the "start-up" of a drive after a hardware error can be in the range of several seconds. 4651 18001 Monitoring Error in the cyclic communication of the drive (Life Counter) Reasons for this could be an interrupted fieldbus or a drive that is in the error state. 4652 18002 Monitoring Changing the table ID with active controller enable not allowed Changing (deselecting, selecting) the characteristic curve table ID is not permissible when the controller enable for the axis is active. 4655 18005 Monitoring I/O data for more than 'n' continuous NC cycles invalid The axis (encoder or drive) has detected invalid I/O data for more than 'n' continuous NC cycles (NC SAF task) (e.g. n=3). As a consequence it is possible that the encoder referencing flag is reset to FALSE (i.e. the encoder gets the state "unreferenced"). Ether CAT fieldbus: "working counter error ('WCState')" Lightbus fieldbus: "CDL state error ('Cdl State')" 2.8 Table Errors Error(Hex) Error(Dec) Error type Description 4A00 18944 Parameter Table ID not allowed The value for the table ID is not allowed, e.g. because it has already been assigned - is less than or equal to zero - or is greater than 255. Value range: [1 ... 255] Unit: 1 4A01 18945 Parameter Table type not permitted The value for the table type is not allowed as it is not defined. Value range: [1] Unit: 1 4A02 18946 Parameter Number of lines in the table not allowed 62 Version: 2.3.4 NC Errors
## Page 63

Overview of NC Errors Error(Hex) Error(Dec) Error type Description The value of the number of lines in the table is not allowed, because, for example, it is smaller than two at linear interpolation and smaller than four at spline interpolation. Value range: [2, 0x FFFF] Unit: 1 4A03 18947 Parameter Number of columns in the table is not allowed The value of the number of columns in the table is not allowed, because, for example, it is less than or equal to zero (depends upon the type of table or slave). Value range: [1, 0x FFFF] Unit: 1 4A04 18948 Parameter Step size (position delta) not allowed The value for the step size between two lines (position delta) is not allowed, because, for example, it is less than or equal to zero. Value range: [0.001, 1.0E+6] Unit: e.g. mm 4A05 18949 Parameter Period not allowed The value for the period is not allowed, because, for example, it is less than or equal to zero. Value range: [0.001, 1.0E+9] Unit: e.g. mm 4A06 18950 Parameter Table is not monotonic. The value for the step size is not allowed, because, for example, it is less than or equal to zero. 4A07 18951 Initialization Table sub type not allowed The value for the table sub-type is unacceptable because it is not defined. Or the table sub-type and the table class (slave type) do not match. Table sub-types: (1) equidistant linear position table, (2) equidistant cyclic position table, (3) non-equidistant linear position table, (4) non-equidistant cyclic position table Value range: [1, 4] Unit: 1 4A08 18952 Initialization Table interpolation type not allowed The value for the table interpolation type is invalid because it is not defined. Table interpolation types: (0) linear interpolation, (1) 4-point interpolation, (2) spline interpolation Value range: [0, 2] Unit: 1 4A09 18953 Initialization Incorrect table main type The table main type is not allowed because it is not defined. Or the table main type and the table class (slave type) do not match. Table main types: (1) cam plate table (camming), (10) characteristic table, (16) 'motion function' table (MF) 4A10 18960 Initialization Table initialization The table has not been initialized. Although the table has been created, the rest of the initialization has not been performed. For instance, the number of lines or columns may be less than or equal to zero. 4A11 18961 Initialization Not enough memory The table could not be created, since there is not enough memory. 4A12 18962 Function Function not executed, function not available NC Errors Version: 2.3.4 63
## Page 64

Overview of NC Errors Error(Hex) Error(Dec) Error type Description The function has not been implemented, or cannot be executed, for the present type of table. 4A13 18963 Function Line index not allowed The start line index or the stop line index to be used for read or write access to the table is not allowed. For instance, the line index is greater than the total number of lines in the table. 4A14 18964 Function Column index not allowed The start column index or the stop column index to be used for read or write access to the table in not allowed. For instance, the column index is greater than the total number of columns in the table. 4A15 18965 Function Number of lines not allowed The number of lines to be read from or written to the table is not allowed. The number of lines must be an integer multiple of the number of elements in a line (n * number of columns). 4A16 18966 Function Number of columns not allowed The number of columns to be read from or written to the table is not allowed. The number of columns must be an integer multiple of the number of elements in a column (n * number of lines). 4A17 18967 Function Error in scaling or in range entry The entries in the table header are inconsistent, e.g. the scope is empty. If the error is generated during the runtime it is a runtime error and stops the master/slave group. 4A18 18968 Function Multi table slave out of range The slave master position is outside the table values for the master. The error is a runtime error, and stops the master/slave group. 4A19 18969 Function Solo table underflow The slave master position is outside the table values for the master. The master value of the equidistant table, to be processed linearly, lies under the first table value. The error is a runtime error, and stops the master/slave group. 4A1A 18970 Function Solo table overflow The slave master position is outside the table values for the master. The master value of the equidistant table, to be processed linearly, lies above the first table value. The error is a runtime error, and stops the master/slave group. 4A1B 18971 Parameter Incorrect execution mode The cyclic execution mode can only be "TRUE" or "FALSE". 4A1C 18972 Parameter Invalid parameter The Fifo parameter is not allowed. 4A1D 18973 Parameter Fifo is empty The Fifo of the external generator is empty. This can signify an end of track or a runtime error. 4A1E 18974 Parameter Fifo is full The Fifo of the external generator is full. It is the user's task to continue to attempt to fill the Fifo with the rejected values. 4A1F 18975 Parameter Point index of the motion function is invalid. The point index of a Motion Function Point of a Motion Function Table is invalid. First, the point index must firstly be greater than zero and secondly, it must be numerically consecutive for a 64 Version: 2.3.4 NC Errors
## Page 65

Overview of NC Errors Error(Hex) Error(Dec) Error type Description column of a Motion Function Table (e.g. 1,2,3,... or 10,11,12,...). Note: The point index must not be changed online, but must be kept constant. 4A20 18976 Initialization No diagonalization of matrix The spline cannot be calculated. The master positions are not correct. 4A21 18977 Initialization Number of spline points too small The number of points of a cubic spline must be at least three. Therefore, the number of lines must be at least three. 4A22 18978 Initialization Fifo must not be overwritten. The Fifo of the external generator must not be overwritten, otherwise it would be written over the active processing line. It is up to the user to make sure that no changes or deletions are requested across the active line. 4A23 18979 Function Motion Function has too few points The number of valid points defining a Motion Function is less than two. Either the total number is too low or the point type of many points is set to Ignore Point. 4A25 18981 Initialization Master start position of the table is invalid. For a periodic position table, it is mandatory that the master position of the table starts at zero. For a periodic motion function, the first master position must be greater than zero but not greater than the period of the table. 2.9 NC-PLC Errors Error(Hex) Error(dec) Error type Description 4B00 19200 Parameter Axis was stopped. The axis was stopped during travel to the target position. The axis may have been stopped with a PLC command via ADS, a call via AXFNC, or by the Twin CAT development environment. 4B01 19201 Parameter The axis cannot be started. The axis cannot be started because: • the axis is in error state, • the axis is executing another command, • the axis is in protected mode, • the axis is not ready for operation. 4B02 19202 Parameter Control mode not permitted No target position control, and no position area control. 4B03 19203 Parameter Axis is not moving. The position and velocity can only be restarted while the axis is physically in motion. 4B04 19204 Parameter Mode invalid Examples: Invalid Direction with MC_Move Modulo. Inactive axis parameter Position correction with MC_Backlash Compensation. 4B05 19205 Parameter Command not permitted • Continuous motion in an unspecified direction • Read/Write parameter: unsuitable type NC Errors Version: 2.3.4 65
## Page 66

Overview of NC Errors Error(Hex) Error(dec) Error type Description 4B06 19206 Parameter Parameter is not correct • Incorrect override: > 100 % or < 0 % • Incorrect gear ratio: Ratio Denominator = 0 4B07 19207 Parameter Timeout axis function block After positioning all "MC_Move..."function blocks, check whether positioning was completed successfully. In the simplest case, the "Axis Has Job" flag of the NC axis is checked, which initially signifies that positioning was logically completed. Depending on the parameterization of the NC axis, further checks (quality criteria) are used: • "Position range monitoring": If position range monitoring is active, the system waits for feedback from the NC. After positioning, the axis must be within the specified positioning range window. If necessary, the position controller ensures that the axis is moved to the target position. If the position controller is switched off (Kv=0) or weak, the target may not be reached. • "Target position monitoring": If target position monitoring is active, the system waits for feedback from the NC. After positioning, the axis must be within the specified target position window for at least the specified time. If necessary, the position controller ensures that the axis is moved to the target position. If the position controller is switched off (Kv=0) or weak, the target may not be reached. Floating position control may lead to the axis oscillating around the window but not remaining inside the window. If the axis is logically at the target position (logical standstill) but the parameterized position window has not been reached, monitoring of the above-mentioned NC feedback is aborted with error 19207 (0x4B07) after a constant timeout of 6 seconds. 4B08 19208 Parameter Axis is in protected mode. The axis is in protected mode (e.g. coupled) and cannot be moved. 4B09 19209 Parameter Axis is not ready. The axis is not ready and cannot be moved. 4B0A 19210 Parameter Error during referencing Referencing (homing) of the axis could not be started or was not successful. 4B0B 19211 Parameter Incorrect definition of the trigger input The definition of the trigger signal for function block MC_Touch Probe is incorrect. The defined encoder-ID, the trigger signal or the trigger edge are invalid. 4B0C 19212 Function Position latch was disabled. The function block MC_Touch Probe has detected that a touch probe cycle it had started was disabled. The reason may be an axis reset, for example. 4B0D 19213 Function NC state feedback timeout A function was successfully sent from the PLC to the NC. An expected feedback in the axis status word has not arrived. 4B0E 19214 Function Additional product not installed. 66 Version: 2.3.4 NC Errors
## Page 67

Overview of NC Errors Error(Hex) Error(dec) Error type Description The function is available as a supplement but is not installed on the system. 4B0F 19215 Function No NC Cycle Counter Update The Nc To Plc Interface or the NC Cycle Counter in the Nc To Plc Interface was not updated. Error numbers 0x4B10 .. 0x4B2F are used in Twin CAT NCI context: 4B10 19216 Function M-function query missing. This error occurs if the M-function was confirmed, but the request bit was not set. 4B11 19217 Parameter Zero shift index is outside the range. The index of the zero offset shift is invalid. 4B12 19218 Parameter R parameter index or size is invalid. This error occurs if the R parameters are written or read but the index or size are outside the range. 4B13 19219 Parameter Index for tool description is invalid. The index for the tool description is invalid. 4B14 19220 Function Version of the cyclic channel interface does not match the requested function or the function block. This error occurs if an older Twin CAT version is used to call new functions of a later Tc Nci.lib version. 4B15 19221 Function Channel is not ready for the requested function. The requested function cannot be executed, because the channel is in the wrong state. This error occurs during reverse travel, for example, if the axis was not stopped with Itp EStop first. 4B16 19222 Function Requested function is not activated. The requested function requires explicit activation. 4B17 19223 Function Axis is already in another group The axis has already been added to another group. 4B18 19224 Function Block search could not be executed successfully. The block search has failed. Possible causes: • Invalid block number 4B19 19225 Parameter Blocksearch parameter invalid This error occurs if the function block Itp Blocksearch is called with invalid parameters (e.g. E_Itp Dry Run Mode, E_Itp Block Search Mode). 4B20 19232 Function Cannot add all axes This error occurs if an auxiliary axis is to be added to an interpolation group, but the function fails. It is likely that a preceding instruction of an auxiliary axis was skipped. Error numbers 0x4B30 .. 0x4B3F are used in the Tc Mc Cam-Lib (MC_NC_Table Error Codes): 4B30 19248 Parameter Pointer is invalid. A pointer to a data structure is invalid, e.g. Null. • Data structure MC_CAM_REF was not initialized. 4B31 19249 Parameter Memory size invalid The specification of the memory size (SIZE) for a data structure is invalid. • Memory size is 0 or smaller than an element of the addressed data structure. NC Errors Version: 2.3.4 67
## Page 68

Overview of NC Errors Error(Hex) Error(dec) Error type Description • Memory size is smaller than the requested amount of data. • Memory size does not match other parameters, such as number of points, number of rows or number of columns. 4B32 19250 Parameter Cam plate ID is invalid. The ID of a cam plate is not between 1 and 255. 4B33 19251 Parameter Point ID is invalid. The ID of a point (interpolation point) of a motion function is less than 1. 4B34 19252 Parameter Number of points is invalid. The number of points (interpolation points) of a cam plate to be read or written is less than 1. 4B35 19253 Parameter MC table type is invalid. The type of a cam plate does not match the definition MC_Table Type. 4B36 19254 Parameter Number of rows invalid The number of rows (interpolation points) of a cam plate is less than 1. 4B37 19255 Parameter Number of columns invalid The number of columns of a cam plate is invalid. • The number of columns of a motion function is not equal 1. • The number of columns of a standard cam plate is not equal 2. • The number of columns does not match another parameter (Value Select Mask). 4B38 19256 Parameter Step size invalid The step size for the interpolation is invalid, e.g. less than or equal to zero. Error numbers 0x4B0F, 0x4B40 .. 0x4B4F are used in several libraries (Tc Nc-Lib / Tc2_MC2_XFC-Lib): 4B40 19264 Monitoring Terminal type not supported The terminal used is not supported by this function block. 4B41 19265 Monitoring Register read/write error This error implies a validity error. 4B42 19266 Monitoring Axis is enabled. The axis is enabled but should not be enabled for this process. 4B43 19267 Parameter Incorrect size of the compensation table The specified table size (in bytes) does not match the actual size. 4B44 19268 Parameter Positional deviation The minimum/maximum position in the compensation table does not match the position in the table description (ST_Compensation Desc). 4B45 19269 Parameter Not implemented The requested function is not implemented in this combination. 4B46 19270 Parameter Window not in the specified modulo range The parameterized min or max position is not in the specified modulo range. 68 Version: 2.3.4 NC Errors
## Page 69

Overview of NC Errors Error(Hex) Error(dec) Error type Description 4B47 19271 Monitoring Buffer overflow The number of events has led to an overflow of the buffer and not all events could be acquired. Error numbers 0x4B50 .. 0x4B5F are used in the Tc Mc Cam-Lib : Error numbers 0x4B60 .. 0x4B6F are used in the Tc Mc2-Lib in the buffered commands context: 4B60 19296 Monitoring Motion command did not become active. A motion command has been started and has been buffered and confirmed by the NC. Nevertheless, the motion command did not become active (possibly due to a termination condition or an internal NC error). 4B61 19297 Monitoring Motion command could not be monitored by the PLC. A motion command has been started and has been buffered and confirmed by the NC. The PLC has not been able to monitor the execution of this command and the execution status is unclear since the NC is already executing a more recent command. The execution state is unclear. This error may come up with very short buffered motion commands which are executed during one PLC cycle. 4B62 19298 Monitoring Buffered command was terminated with an error. A buffered command was terminated with an error. The error number is not available, because a new command is already being executed. 4B63 19299 Monitoring Buffered command was completed without feedback A buffered command was completed but there was no feedback to indicate success or failure. 4B64 19300 Monitoring 'Buffer Mode' is not supported by the command. The 'Buffer Mode' is not supported by this command. 4B65 19301 Monitoring Command number is zero. The command number for queued commands managed by the system unexpectedly has the value 0. 4B66 19302 Monitoring Function block was not called cyclically. The function block was not called cyclically. The command execution could not be monitored by the PLC, because the NC was already executing a subsequent command. The execution state is unclear. Error numbers 0x4B70 .. 0x4B8F are used in the Tc Plc Interpolation-Lib : 4B71 19313 Parameter NCI Entry type invalid The FB FB_Nci Feed Table Preparation was called with an unknown n Entry Type. 4B72 19314 Function NCI feed table full The table is full and therefore the entry is not accepted. Remedy: Transfer the contents to the NC kernel with the function block FB_Nci Feed Table. If b Feeding Done = TRUE, the table can be reset in FB_Nci Feed Table Preparation with b Reset Table and then filled with new entries. 4B73 19315 Function Internal error 4B74 19316 Parameter ST_Nci Tangential Following Desc: Tangential axis is not an auxiliary axis. The entry for tangential following contains a tangential axis that is not an auxiliary axis. NC Errors Version: 2.3.4 69
## Page 70

Overview of NC Errors Error(Hex) Error(dec) Error type Description 4B75 19317 Parameter ST_Nci Tangential Following Desc n Path Axis1 or n Path Axis2 is not a path axis. It is therefore not possible to determine the plane. 4B76 19318 Parameter ST_Nci Tangential Follwoing Desc n Path Axis1 and n Path Axis2 are the same. It is therefore not possible to determine the plane. 4B77 19319 Parameter ST_Nci Geo Circle Plane Circle incorrectly parameterized 4B78 19320 Function Internal error An internal error has occurred in the calculation of the tangential following. 4B79 19321 Monitoring Tangential following Monitoring of the deviation angle was activated during activation of tangential following (E_Tf Error On Critical1), and an excessively large deviation angle was detected in the current segment. 4B7A 19322 Function Reserved Reserved, currently not used. 4B7B 19323 Parameter Tangential following The radius of the current arc is too small. 4B7C 19324 Parameter FB_Nci Feed Table Preparation p Entry is NULL 4B7D 19325 Parameter FB_Nci Feed Table Preparation The specified n Entry Type does not match the structure type. 4B7E 19326 Parameter ST_Nci MFunc Fast and ST_Nci MFunc Hsk The requested M-function is not between 0 and 159. 4B7F 19327 Parameter ST_Nci Dyn Ovr The requested value for the dynamic override is not between 0.01 and 1 4B80 19328 Parameter ST_Nci Vertex Smoothing Invalid parameter. This error is generated if a negative smoothing radius or an unknown smoothing type is encountered. 4B81 19329 Parameter FB_Nci Feed Table Prepartion The requested velocity is not in the valid range. 4B82 19330 Parameter ST_Nci* Invalid parameter Error numbers 0x4B90 .. 0x4B9F are used in the Tc3_MC2_Advanced Homing-Lib (PLCopen Part 5: Homing Procedures): 4B90 19344 Parameter Drive type The determined drive type is not supported. 4B91 19345 Parameter Direction The direction is impermissible. 4B92 19346 Switch Mode The Switch Mode is impermissible. 4B93 19347 Mode The mode for the parameter handling is impermissible. 4B94 19348 Torque limits 70 Version: 2.3.4 NC Errors
## Page 71

Overview of NC Errors Error(Hex) Error(dec) Error type Description The parameterization of the torque limits is inconsistent. 4B95 19349 Lag error limit The parameterization of the position lag limit is impermissible (<=0). 4B96 19350 Distance limit The parameterization of the distance limit is impermissible (<0). 4B97 19351 Saving parameters An attempt was made to back up parameters again, although they have already been backed up. 4B98 19352 Restoring parameters An attempt was made to restore parameters, although none have been backed up. 4B9F 19359 Cancellation of a homing The abortion of a homing has failed. Error numbers 0x4BA0 .. 0x4BAF are used in the Tc Nc Kinematic Transformation-Lib : 4BA0 19360 Function Kin Group error The kinematic group is in an error state. This error may occur if the kinematic group is in an error state or an unexpected state when it is called (e.g., simultaneous call via several function block instances). 4BA1 19361 Function Kin Group timeout Timeout during call of a kinematic block Error numbers 0x4BB0 .. 0x4BBF are used in the Tc2_MC2_Drive-Lib : 4BB0 19376 Function Invalid axis position The current axis position or the axis position resulting from the new position offset exceeds the valid range of values. 4BB1 19377 Function Position offset invalid The new position offset exceeds the valid range of values [AX5000: 2^31]. 4BB2 19378 Function Invalid axis position The current axis position or the axis position resulting from the new position offset falls below the valid range of values. 4BB3 19379 Function Position offset invalid The new position offset falls below the valid range of values [AX5000: -2^31]. 4BB4 19380 Function Deviation of the activated feedback and/or storage location The activated feedback and/or storage location (AX5000: P-0-0275) differ from the parameterization on the function block. 4BB5 19381 Function Reinitialization of the NC actual position has failed. The reinitialization of the actual NC position has failed, e.g., reference system = "ABSOLUTE (with single overflow)" & software end position monitoring is disabled. 4BB6 19382 Function The setting or deletion of a position offset was rejected. NC Errors Version: 2.3.4 71
## Page 72

Overview of NC Errors Error(Hex) Error(dec) Error type Description The command to set or delete a position offset was rejected without feedback data, e.g., if the drive controller's firmware does not support the corresponding command. 4BB7 19383 Function The setting or deletion of a position offset was rejected. The command to set or delete a position offset was rejected with feedback data. The information in the feedback data may contain further clues to the cause, e.g. if the firmware of the drive controller does not support the corresponding command. 4BB8 19384 Function Firmware version invalid A firmware version >= 19 is required for the servo terminal. 4BB9 19385 Function Different modulo settings The modulo settings on the drive controller and in the NC are different. 4BBA 19386 Function Brake test failed The brake test has failed. 4BBB 19387 Function Drive type not supported The determined drive or axis type is not supported. 4BBC 19388 Function Command was aborted. The command was aborted by another command. 4BBD 19389 Function Timeout The command was aborted due to timeout. Error numbers 0x4BC0 .. 0x4BCF are used in the Tc3_Drive Motion Control-Lib : 4BC2 19394 Position offset invalid The new position offset exceeds the valid value range. 4BC3 19395 I/O data invalid I/O data are invalid or the terminal is in an error state. 4BC4 19396 ADS port not linked in the interface The ADS port variable of the terminal was not linked to the axis interface of the PLC and parameters of the terminal are to be changed. 2.10 Kinematic Transformation Error(Hex) Error(Dec) Error type Description 4C00 19456 Transformation failed The calculation of the transformation failed. 4C01 19457 Ambiguous solution The solution for the transformation is not unique. 4C02 19458 Invalid axis position The transformation cannot be calculated with the current position data. Possible causes: • The position is outside the working area of the kinematics. 4C03 19459 Configuration Invalid dimension 72 Version: 2.3.4 NC Errors
## Page 73

Overview of NC Errors Error(Hex) Error(Dec) Error type Description The dimension of the parameterized input parameter does not match the dimension expected by the kinematic object. Possible causes: • Too many position values are supplied for this configuration. Check the number of parameterized axes. 4C04 19460 Internal error NCERR_KINTRAFO_REGISTRATION 4C05 19461 Internal Newton iteration failed The Newton iteration does not converge. 4C06 19462 Internal Jacobi matrix cannot be inverted The Jacobi matrix cannot be inverted. 4C07 19463 Configuration Invalid cascade This kinematic configuration is not permitted. 4C08 19464 Programming Singularity The machine configuration results in singular axis velocities. 4C0B 19467 Internal No metainfo The metainfo pointer is null. 4C13 19475 Internal NCERR_RBTFRAME_INVALIDWCSTOMCS The Wcs To Mcs component used leads to positions that the selected kinematics cannot assume. It is necessary to adjust the Wcs To Mcs parameters. 4C20 19488 Internal Transformation failed The call of the extended kinematics model has failed. 4C30 19504 Programming Invalid input frame The programmed Cartesian position cannot be approached in the ACS configuration. 4C50 19536 Internal Invalid offset An access violation was detected in the observer. 2.11 Bode Return Codes The following bode plot specific error codes are used in the bode plot server: Code (Hex) Code (Dec) Symbol Description 0x8100 33024 INTERNAL Internal error 0x8101 33025 NOTINITIALIZED Not initialized (e.g. no nc axis) 0x8102 33026 INVALIDPARAM Invalid parameter 0x8103 33027 INVALIDOFFSET Invalid index offset 0x8104 33028 INVALIDSIZE Invalid parameter size 0x8105 33029 INVALIDSTARTPARAM Invalid start parameter (set point generator) 0x8106 33030 NOTSUPPORTED Not supported 0x8107 33031 AXISNOTENABLED Nc axis not enabled 0x8108 33032 AXISINERRORSTATE Nc axis in error state 0x8109 33033 DRIVEINERRORSTATE IO drive in error state 0x810A 33034 AXISANDDRIVEINERROR- Nc axis AND IO drive in error state STATE NC Errors Version: 2.3.4 73
## Page 74

Overview of NC Errors Code (Hex) Code (Dec) Symbol Description 0x810B 33035 INVALIDDRIVEOPMODE Invalid drive operation mode active or requested (no bode plot mode) 0x810C 33036 INVALIDCONTEXT Invalid context for this command (mandatory task or windows context needed) 0x810D 33037 NOAXISINTERFACE Missing TCom axis interface (axis null pointer). There is no connection to the NC axis. Either no axis (or axis ID) has been parameterized, or the parameterized axis does not exist. 0x810E 33038 INPUTCYCLECOUNTER Invalid input cycle counter from IO drive (e.g. frozen). The cyclic drive data are backed up by an ‘Input Cycle Counter’ during the bode plot recording. This allows firstly the detection of an unexpected communication loss (keyword: Life Counter) and secondly a check for temporal data consistency to be performed. Example 1: This error can occur if the cycle time of the calling task is larger than the assumed drive cycle time (in this case, however, the error occurs right at the start of the recording). Example 2: This error can occur if the calling task has real-time errors (e.g. the "Exceed Counter" of the task increments or the task has a lower priority, as is often the case, for example, with the PLC). In this case the error can also occur at any time during the recording. Example 3: This error can occur more frequently if the real-time load on the computer is quite high (>50 %). Note: Refer also to the corresponding AX5000 drive error code F440. 0x810F 33039 POSITION MONITORING Position monitoring: Axis position is outside of the maximum allowed (=> NC Runtime Error) moving range. The axis has left the parameterized position range window, whereupon the recording was aborted and the NC axis was placed in the error state 0x810F (with standard NC error handling). The position range window acts symmetrically around the start position of the axis (see also parameter description Position Monitoring Window). Typical error message in the logger: "Bode Plot: 'Position Monitoring' error 0x%x because the actual position %f is above the maximum limit %f of the allowed position range (Start Pos=%f, Window=%f)" 74 Version: 2.3.4 NC Errors
## Page 75

Overview of NC Errors Code (Hex) Code (Dec) Symbol Description 0x8110 33040 DRIVELIMITATIONDETECTED Driver limitations detected (current or velocity limitations) which causes a nonlinear behavior and invalid results of the bode plot. A bode plot recording requires an approximately linear transmission link. If the velocity or current is limited in the drive device, however, this non-linear behavior is detected and the bode plot recording is aborted. Reasons for these limitations can be: choosing too large an amplitude for the position, velocity or torque interface, or an unsuitable choice of amplitude scaling mode (see also parameter description Amplitude Scaling Mode, Base Amplitude, Signal Amplitude). Typical error message in the logger: "Bode Plot: Sequence aborted with error 0x%x because the current limit of the drive has been exceeded (%d times) which causes a nonlinear behavior and invalid results of the bode plot" 0x8111 33041 LIFECOUNTERMONITORING Life counter monitoring (heartbeat): Lost of communication to GUI detected (=> NC Runtime Error) after watchdog timeout is elapsed. The graphical user interface from which the bode plot recording was started is no longer communicating with the bode plot driver in the expected rhythm (keyword: ‘Life Counter’). Therefore the recording is terminated immediately and the NC axes are placed in the error state 0x8111 (with standard NC error handling). Possible reasons for this can be an user interface crash or a major malfunction of the Windows context. Typical error message in the logger: "Bode Plot: Sequence aborted with GUI Life Counter error 0x%x because the Watch Dog timeout of %f s elapsed ('%s')" 0x8112 33042 NCERR_BODEPLOT_WCSTAT WC state error (IO data working E counter) IO working counter error (WC state), for example due to real-time errors, Ether CAT CRC errors or telegram failures, Ether CAT device not communicating (OP state), etc. 0x8113- 33043- RESERVED Reserved range 0x811F 33055 2.12 Further Error Codes Table 1: Error(Hex) Error(Dec) Error Type Description 0x8120 33056 Environment Invalid configuration for Object (e.g. in Twin CAT 3 Engineering (XAE)). NC Errors Version: 2.3.4 75
## Page 76

Overview of NC Errors Error(Hex) Error(Dec) Error Type Description 0x8121 33057 Environment Invalid environment for Object (e.g. Tc Com- Object's Hierarchy or missing/faulty Objects). 0x8122 33058 Environment Incompatible Driver or Object. 0x8124 33060 Function Command execution does not terminate (e. g. Block MC_Reset does not signal DONE). 0x8130 33072 Communicatio Invalid Object ID of Communication Target. n 0x8131 33073 Communicatio Communication Target expects Call in different n Context. 0x8132 33074 Communicatio Invalid State of Communication Target. n 0x8134 33076 Communicatio Communication with Communication Target n cannot be established. 0x813b 33083 Parameter Transition Mode is invalid. 0x813c 33084 Parameter Buffer Mode is invalid. 0x813d 33085 Function Only one active Instance of Function Block per Block Group is allowed. 0x813e 33086 State Command is not allowed in current group state. 0x813f 33087 Function Slave cannot synchronize. The slave cannot reach Block the Slave Sync Position with the given dynamics. 0x8140 33088 Parameter Invalid value for one or more of the dynamic parameters (Acceleration, Deceleration, Jerk). 0x8141 33089 Parameter Ident In Group is invalid. 0x8142 33090 Parameter The number of axes in the group is incompatible with the axes convention. 0x8143 33091 Communicatio Function Block or respective Command is not n supported by Target. 0x8144 33092 State Command queue full. Command queue is completely filled up and cannot accept additional commands until some commands are fully processed. 0x8145 33093 Function Mapping of Cyclic Interface between NC and PLC Block is missing (e.g. AXIS_REF, AXES_GROUP_REF, ...). 0x8146 33094 Function Invalid Velocity Value. The velocity was not set or Block the entered value is invalid. 0x8147 33095 Parameter Invalid Coordinate Dimension. The dimension of the set coordinate interpretation does not meet the requirements. 0x8148 33096 Function Invalid Input Value. Block 0x8149 33097 Parameter Unsupported Dynamics for selected Group Kernel. 0x814a 33098 Parameter The programmed position dimension is incompatible with the axes convention. 0x814b 33099 Function Path buffer is invalid. For example because Block provided buffer has invalid address or is not big enough. 0x814c 33100 Function Path does not contain any element. Block 0x814d 33101 Function Provided Path buffer is too small to store more Block Path Elements. 0x814e 33102 Parameter Dimension or at least one Value of Transition Parameters is invalid. 76 Version: 2.3.4 NC Errors
## Page 77

Overview of NC Errors Error(Hex) Error(Dec) Error Type Description 0x814f 33103 Function Invalid or Incomplete Input Array. Block 0x8150 33104 Function Path length is zero. Block 0x8151 33105 State Command is not allowed in current axis state. If the axis has no controller enable, is in error or has been added to a group, some commands are not permitted. 0x8152 33106 State Twin CAT System is shutting down and cannot complete request. 0x8153 33107 Parameter Configured axes convention and configured axes do not match. 0x8154 33108 Initialization Invalid Number of ACS Axes. The number of ACS input axes does not match the number of ACS input axes expected by the kinematic transformation. 0x8155 33109 Initialization Invalid Number of MCS Data. The number of MCS input data does not match the number expected by the kinematic transformation. 0x8156 33110 Initialization Invalid Value Set for Kinematic Parameters. The numeric value set for the parameter does not reside within the respective definition range. 0x8158 33112 NC The given ACS Values Cannot be Reached. The Programming given ACS values result in an invalid machine configuration. 0x8159 33113 NC The set Target Positions Cannot be Reached. The Programming set target positions reside outside the admissible working space. 0x815d 33117 NC Discontinuity in ACS axes detected. Programming 0x8160 33120 NC Circle Specification in Path is invalid. The Programming specification of a circle segment in the programmed interpolated path (e.g. via MC_Move Path) has an invalid or ambiguous description. Probably its center cannot be determined reliably. 0x8161 33121 NC Maximum stream lines reached. The maximum Programming number of stream lines is limited. Please refer to function block documentation for details. 0x8163 33123 Function Invalid First Segment. The corresponding element Block can only be analyzed with a well-defined start point. 0x8164 33124 Function Invalid auxiliary point. The auxiliary point is not Block well-defined. 0x8166 33126 Function Invalid parameter for Gap Control Mode. Invalid Block parameter for Gap Control Mode, most likely in combination with the group parameter Gap Control Direction. 0x8167 33127 External Group got unsupported Axis Event (e.g. State Change). Group got unsupported Axis Event (e.g. State Change e.g. triggered by a Single Axis Reset). 0x8168 33128 Parameter Unsupported Compensation Type. The compensation type was either not set or is not supported by the addressed object. 0x8169 33129 Function Master axis does not exist or cannot be used. Block NC Errors Version: 2.3.4 77
## Page 78

Overview of NC Errors Error(Hex) Error(Dec) Error Type Description 0x816a 33130 External Invalid or Missing Tracking Transformation. This error occurs at MC_Track Conveyor Belt if at the Coord Transform input an invalid object ID is used or the object ID points to an object that is not supported as coordinate transformation. 0x816b 33131 Function Position is not on Track. Either Track cannot be Block activated because Actual Position is not on Track, or Target Position is not on Active Track or Track Part. 0x816c 33132 Function Axis does not have an activated track. Block 0x816d 33133 NC Invalid Compensation Object Id. An Object with this Programming Object Id does not exist or it is not of the right type (has to be a compensation). 0x816e 33134 Monitoring Axis is in error because axis was not in Target when In Target Alarm Timer expired. 0x816f 33135 State Coupling would cause a cyclic dependency of axis (e.g. via MC_Gear In Pos). 0x8170 33136 Function Axis was not added to an axes group. The Block command is not valid. 0x817e 33150 State Enabling of the mover is not allowed. Enabling of the mover is not allowed, because the mover is not present on the system. Check the state of the mover. 0x817f 33151 State Drive has invalid State. 0x8181 33153 Function Parameter for gap control are invalid with the Block current configuration. Function block with gap control was issued to an axis that is not in a CA group. 0x8182 33154 Monitoring Software position limit violation. Software position limits of at least one axis have been or would have been violated by a command. 0x8183 33155 NC Target position is not reachable. There is no path Programming available to the target position or target position is unreachable in general. 0x8185 33157 NC The mover or one of its relevant coordinates is Programming busy. Either the whole mover or at least of its coordinates relevant to the command are busy. 0x8186 33158 NC A collision has occurred or would occur. Either a Programming collision has occurred or would occur if the command was executed. 0x8187 33159 NC Invalid Track Specification. The geometric Programming extension of this track is incompatible with the already existing geometry of this or the other tracks. 0x8188 33160 NC Command not allowed in track state. Programming 0x8189 33161 Function Invalid Reference passed to Function Block. An Block invalid reference (or pointer) was used in a function block call. This can happen if a reference type is used before it was initialized. 0x818a 33162 NC Path is locked against modifications. The path Programming was locked to further changes. However, it might be resettable. 0x818c 33164 Parameter Position is out of modulo range. Position must be larger or equal to zero and less or equal to the modulus when using modulo positioning. When using 78 Version: 2.3.4 NC Errors
## Page 79

Overview of NC Errors Error(Hex) Error(Dec) Error Type Description modulo positioning, the target position is interpreted in consideration of the Additional Turns variable at the Options input. 0x818d 33165 Parameter The specified value Additional Turns at the Options input is not allowed. The parameter Additional Turns must be zero for the specified value of the parameter Direction. 0x818e 33166 Function Master/Slave sync position incompatible with Block sync direction. The given sync positions require the slave moving in a direction which is not allowed while in synchronization phase. 0x8191 33169 State Unexpected axis state. At least one axis has an unexpected state. This may occur if a group reset is active and an axis error occurs after the respective axis was successfully reset. 0x8192 33170 State Invalid reference system. The reference system is unknown or invalid for this application. 0x8193 33171 State Position not in reference system. The position is outside of the specified reference system. 0x8194 33172 State A previous command is blocking execution. A previous command is still ongoing and simultaneous execution of both commands is impossible. 0x8198 33176 Parameter Invalid index. The used index does not exist or is invalid. 0x8199 33177 Function Command not allowed. The command is not Block allowed in the current configuration. 0x819c 33180 NC Invalid path parametrization. A path was Programming parametrized incorrectly. 0x81a0 33184 Function Invalid path sequence. Commands may not be Block added to a path in this order. 0x8f2f - 36655 - Internal Internal Error. 0x8f50 36688 0x8f56 36694 Internal Internal Error. 0x8f59 36697 Internal Internal Error. 0x8f5c - 36700 - Internal Internal Error. 0x8f62 36706 0x8f65 36709 Internal Internal Error. 0x8f68 - 36712 - Internal Internal Error. 0x8fce 36814 0x8fd0 - 36816 - Internal Internal Error. 0x8fff 36863 NC Errors Version: 2.3.4 79
## Page 80

Trademark statements Beckhoff®, ATRO®, Ether CAT®, Ether CAT G®, Ether CAT G10®, Ether CAT P®, MX-System®, Safety over Ether CAT®, TC/BSD®, Twin CAT®, Twin CAT/BSD®, Twin SAFE®, XFC®, XPlanar® and XTS® are registered and licensed trademarks of Beckhoff Automation Gmb H. Third-party trademark statements Microsoft, Microsoft Azure, Microsoft Edge, Power Shell, Visual Studio, Windows and Xbox are trademarks of the Microsoft group of companies.
## Page 81

More Information: www.beckhoff.com/automation Beckhoff Automation Gmb H & Co. KG Hülshorstweg 20 33415 Verl Germany Phone: +49 5246 9630 info@beckhoff.com www.beckhoff.com
