---
title: "TwinCAT_3_PLC_Lib_Tc2_SystemCX_EN"
product: "TwinCAT"
category: "PLC"
tags: ["CAT", "LIB", "PLC", "SYSTEM", "TWIN"]
language: "EN"
document_type: "Library"
version: "1.6.3"
source_pdf: "https://download.beckhoff.com/download/Document/automation/twincat3/TwinCAT_3_PLC_Lib_Tc2_SystemCX_EN.pdf"
release_date: "2025-08-28"
---
Manual | EN TE1000 Twin CAT 3 | PLC Library: Tc2_System CX 2025-08-28 | Version: 1.6.3
## Page 3

Inhaltsverzeichnis Inhaltsverzeichnis 1 Foreword.................................................................................................................................................... 5 1.1 Notes on the documentation............................................................................................................. 5 1.2 For your safety.................................................................................................................................. 5 1.3 Notes on information security............................................................................................................ 7 2 Introduction............................................................................................................................................... 8 3 Function Blocks........................................................................................................................................ 9 3.1 [obsolete]........................................................................................................................................... 9 3.1.1 FB_Cx Get Device Identification........................................................................................... 9 3.1.2 FB_Cx Get Device Identification Ex..................................................................................... 10 3.1.3 FB_CX1010Set Watchdog................................................................................................ 10 3.1.4 FB_CX1020Set Watchdog................................................................................................ 11 3.1.5 FB_CX1030Set Watchdog................................................................................................ 12 3.2 FB_CXProfiler................................................................................................................................. 13 3.3 FB_CXRead KBus Cycle Update Time............................................................................................... 14 3.4 FB_CXRead KBus Error................................................................................................................... 15 3.5 FB_CXSet Text Display.................................................................................................................... 16 3.6 FB_CXSet Text Display USB............................................................................................................. 17 3.7 FB_CXGet Text Display USB............................................................................................................. 19 3.8 FB_CXSimple Ups........................................................................................................................... 20 3.9 FB_CX5010Set Watchdog............................................................................................................... 22 3.10 FB_CX5020Set Watchdog............................................................................................................... 23 3.11 FB_CX7000_LED_ERR.................................................................................................................. 24 3.12 FB_CX7000_LED_WD.................................................................................................................... 25 3.13 FB_CX7080_LED_ERR.................................................................................................................. 26 3.14 FB_CX7080_LED_WD.................................................................................................................... 27 3.15 FB_CX70xx_RW_EEPROM........................................................................................................... 28 3.16 FB_CX70xx_Reset On Board IO....................................................................................................... 30 4 Functions................................................................................................................................................. 32 4.1 [obsolete]......................................................................................................................................... 32 4.1.1 F_Get Version Tc CXSystem.............................................................................................. 32 4.1.2 F_Get Version Tc System CX1000...................................................................................... 32 4.1.3 F_Get Version Tc System CX1010...................................................................................... 32 4.1.4 F_Get Version Tc System CX1020...................................................................................... 33 4.1.5 F_Get Version Tc System CX1030...................................................................................... 33 4.1.6 F_Get Version Tc System CX5010...................................................................................... 33 4.1.7 F_Get Version Tc System CX5020...................................................................................... 34 4.1.8 F_Get Version Tc System CX9000...................................................................................... 34 4.1.9 F_Get Version Tc System CX9010...................................................................................... 34 4.1.10 F_CXSub Time Stamp....................................................................................................... 35 4.1.11 F_CX1000Set Watchdog.................................................................................................. 35 4.1.12 F_CX9000Set Watchdog.................................................................................................. 36 4.1.13 F_CX9010Set Watchdog.................................................................................................. 37 4.2 F_CXNavi Switch............................................................................................................................. 37 TE1000 Version: 1.6.3 3
## Page 4

Inhaltsverzeichnis 4.3 F_CXNavi Switch USB...................................................................................................................... 38 4.4 F_CX81xx_ADDRESS.................................................................................................................... 38 4.5 F_CX8180_LED_ERR.................................................................................................................... 39 4.6 F_CX8180_LED_WD...................................................................................................................... 40 4.7 F_CX8190_LED_ERR.................................................................................................................... 40 4.8 F_CX8190_LED_WD...................................................................................................................... 41 5 Data Types............................................................................................................................................... 42 5.1 [obsolete]......................................................................................................................................... 42 5.1.1 ST_CX_Device Identification............................................................................................ 42 5.1.2 ST_Cx Device Identification Ex........................................................................................... 42 5.2 ST_CX_Profiler Struct...................................................................................................................... 43 5.3 Data type E_CX81x0_LED.............................................................................................................. 44 5.4 E_CX1000_Display Modes.............................................................................................................. 44 5.5 E_CX2100_Display Modes Wr.......................................................................................................... 45 5.6 E_CX2100_Display Modes Rd.......................................................................................................... 45 5.7 Enum E_CX1100_Navi Switch......................................................................................................... 45 5.8 Enum E_CX2100_Navi Switch......................................................................................................... 46 6 Global constants..................................................................................................................................... 47 6.1 Library version................................................................................................................................. 47 4 Version: 1.6.3 TE1000
## Page 5

Foreword 1 Foreword 1.1 Notes on the documentation This description is intended exclusively for trained specialists in control and automation technology who are familiar with the applicable national standards. The documentation and the following notes and explanations must be complied with when installing and commissioning the components. The trained specialists must always use the current valid documentation. The trained specialists must ensure that the application and use of the products described is in line with all safety requirements, including all relevant laws, regulations, guidelines, and standards. Disclaimer The documentation has been compiled with care. The products described are, however, constantly under development. We reserve the right to revise and change the documentation at any time and without notice. Claims to modify products that have already been supplied may not be made on the basis of the data, diagrams, and descriptions in this documentation. Trademarks Beckhoff®, ATRO® , Ether CAT®, Ether CAT G®, Ether CAT G10®, Ether CAT P®, MX-System®, Safety over Ether CAT®, TC/BSD®, Twin CAT®, Twin CAT/BSD®, Twin SAFE®, XFC®, XPlanar®, and XTS® are registered and licensed trademarks of Beckhoff Automation Gmb H. If third parties make use of the designations or trademarks contained in this publication for their own purposes, this could infringe upon the rights of the owners of the said designations. Ether CAT® is a registered trademark and patented technology, licensed by Beckhoff Automation Gmb H, Germany. Copyright © Beckhoff Automation Gmb H & Co. KG, Germany. The distribution and reproduction of this document, as well as the use and communication of its contents without express authorization, are prohibited. Offenders will be held liable for the payment of damages. All rights reserved in the event that a patent, utility model, or design are registered. Third-party trademarks Trademarks of third parties may be used in this documentation. You can find the trademark notices here: https://www.beckhoff.com/trademarks. 1.2 For your safety Safety regulations Read the following explanations for your safety. Always observe and follow product-specific safety instructions, which you may find at the appropriate places in this document. Exclusion of liability All the components are supplied in particular hardware and software configurations which are appropriate for the application. Modifications to hardware or software configurations other than those described in the documentation are not permitted, and nullify the liability of Beckhoff Automation Gmb H & Co. KG. TE1000 Version: 1.6.3 5
## Page 6

Foreword Personnel qualification This description is only intended for trained specialists in control, automation, and drive technology who are familiar with the applicable national standards. Signal words The signal words used in the documentation are classified below. In order to prevent injury and damage to persons and property, read and follow the safety and warning notices. Personal injury warnings DANGER Hazard with high risk of death or serious injury. WARNING Hazard with medium risk of death or serious injury. CAUTION There is a low-risk hazard that could result in medium or minor injury. Warning of damage to property or environment NOTICE The environment, equipment, or data may be damaged. Information on handling the product This information includes, for example: recommendations for action, assistance or further information on the product. 6 Version: 1.6.3 TE1000
## Page 7

Foreword 1.3 Notes on information security The products of Beckhoff Automation Gmb H & Co. KG (Beckhoff), insofar as they can be accessed online, are equipped with security functions that support the secure operation of plants, systems, machines and networks. Despite the security functions, the creation, implementation and constant updating of a holistic security concept for the operation are necessary to protect the respective plant, system, machine and networks against cyber threats. The products sold by Beckhoff are only part of the overall security concept. The customer is responsible for preventing unauthorized access by third parties to its equipment, systems, machines and networks. The latter should be connected to the corporate network or the Internet only if appropriate protective measures have been set up. In addition, the recommendations from Beckhoff regarding appropriate protective measures should be observed. Further information regarding information security and industrial security can be found in our https://www.beckhoff.com/secguide. Beckhoff products and solutions undergo continuous further development. This also applies to security functions. In light of this continuous further development, Beckhoff expressly recommends that the products are kept up to date at all times and that updates are installed for the products once they have been made available. Using outdated or unsupported product versions can increase the risk of cyber threats. To stay informed about information security for Beckhoff products, subscribe to the RSS feed at https:// www.beckhoff.com/secinfo. TE1000 Version: 1.6.3 7
## Page 8

Introduction 2 Introduction This library contains functions and function blocks that use features on the devices of the Embedded PC CX series. Function blocks Name Description FB_CXProfiler [} 13] Runtime measurement of PLC code via the CPU counter FB_CXSet Text Display [} 16] Control of the two-line display of the CX1100 FB_CXSet Text Display USB [} 17] Writing and deleting of rows on the two-line display of the CX 2100 or the EL6090 terminal. FB_CXGet Text Display USB [} 19] Reading of rows on the two-line display of the CX 2100 or the EL6090 terminal. FB_CXSimple Ups [} 20] Control of the UPS CX1190-UPS (device name CX1100-0900, CX1100-0910, CX1100-0920) FB_CX5010Set Watchdog [} 22] Activates a hardware watchdog on the CX5010. FB_CX5020Set Watchdog [} 23] Activates a hardware watchdog on the CX5020. Functions Name Description F_CXSub Time Stamp [} 35] Calculates 64-bit subtraction (time A [100 ns] - time B [100 ns]) as result in µs; only for differences between 0 and 4294967295 us; see link. F_CXNavi Switch [} 37] This function converts the value of the CX1100 navigation switch to an enum value. F_CXNavi Switch USB [} 38] This function converts the value of the CX2100 navigation switch to an enum value. 8 Version: 1.6.3 TE1000
## Page 9

Function Blocks 3 Function Blocks 3.1 [obsolete] 3.1.1 FB_Cx Get Device Identification The function block FB_Cx Get Device Identification can be used to read device ID data of the CX. Obsolete functionality • Use the FB_Get Device Identification Ex from the Tc2_Utilities library. Inputs VAR_INPUT b Execute : BOOL; t Timeout : TIME; END_VAR Name Type Description b Execute BOOL The command is executed with the rising edge. t Timeout TIME States the time before the function is canceled. Outputs VAR_OUTPUT b Busy : BOOL; b Error : BOOL; n Error ID : UDINT; st Dev Ident : ST_Cx Device Identification; END_VAR Name Type Description b Busy BOOL The data are read from the CX. After error-free execution, the data are in the structure st Dev Ident if b Busy = FALSE. b Error BOOL Becomes TRUE, as soon as an error occurs. n Error ID UDINT Supplies the error number when the b Error output is set. st Dev Ident ST_Cx Device Identification Contains the read device data. (Type: ST_Cx Device Identification [} 42]) Requirements Development environment Target platform PLC libraries to include Twin CAT v3.1 CX (WES7/Win10: TC RT x86/x64, Tc2_System CX WEC6/7 :TC TR x86, WEC7: TC CE7 Arm®V7) TE1000 Version: 1.6.3 9
## Page 10

Function Blocks 3.1.2 FB_Cx Get Device Identification Ex The function block FB_Cx Get Device Identification Ex can be used to read device ID data of the CX. The function block is an extension of the function block FB_Cx Get Device Identification. The read device data are stored in the variable st Dev Ident of type ST_Cx Device Identification Ex [} 42]. Obsolete functionality • Use the FB_Get Device Identification Ex from the Tc2_Utilities library. Inputs VAR_INPUT b Execute : BOOL; t Timeout : TIME; END_VAR Name Type Description b Execute BOOL The command is executed with a rising edge. t Timeout TIME States the time before the function is canceled. Outputs VAR_OUTPUT b Busy : BOOL; b Error : BOOL; n Error Id : UDINT; st Dev Ident : ST_Cx Device Identification Ex; END_VAR Name Type Description b Busy BOOL The data are read from the CX. After error-free execution, the data are in the structure st Dev Ident if b Busy = FALSE. b Error BOOL Becomes TRUE, as soon as an error occurs. n Error ID UDINT Supplies the error number when the b Error output is set. st Dev Ident ST_Cx Device Identification Ex Contains the read device data (type: ST_Cx Device Identification Ex [} 42]) Requirements Development environment Target platform PLC libraries to include Twin CAT v3.1 CX (WES7/Win10: TC RT x86/x64, Tc2_System CX WEC6/7 :TC TR x86, WEC7: TC CE7 Arm®V7) 3.1.3 FB_CX1010Set Watchdog 10 Version: 1.6.3 TE1000
## Page 11

Function Blocks The function block FB_CX1010Set Watchdog activates a hardware watchdog on the CX1010. The watchdog is activated via b Enable = TRUE and the t Time Out time. The t Time Out time can be a minimum of 2 seconds and a maximum of 255 seconds. Once the watchdog has been activated, the function block instance must be called cyclically at shorter intervals than t Time Out, since the CX1010 restarts automatically when t Time Out has elapsed. The watchdog can therefore be used to automatically reboot systems, which have entered an infinite loop or where the PLC has become stuck. The watchdog can be deactivated via b Enable = FALSE or t Time Out = T#0s. Deactivate the watchdog before you use breakpoints, before a PLC reset or an overall reset, before a Twin CAT stop, before switching to Config mode or before the configuration is activated, because otherwise the CX1010 would reboot immediately once t Time Out has elapsed. Inputs VAR_INPUT t Time Out : TIME; b Enable : BOOL; END_VAR Name Type Description t Time Out TIME Watchdog time, after which a restart is performed. b Enable BOOL Activating/deactivating the watchdog. Outputs VAR_OUTPUT b Enabled : BOOL; b Error : BOOL; END_VAR Name Type Description b Enabled BOOL TRUE = Watchdog is active, FALSE = Watchdog is not active. b Error BOOL Error when activating or deactivating the watchdog. Requirements Development environment Target platform PLC libraries to include Twin CAT v3.1.0 CX (x86) Tc2_System CX 3.1.4 FB_CX1020Set Watchdog The function block FB_CX1020Set Watchdog activates a hardware watchdog on the CX1020. The watchdog is activated via b Enable = TRUE and the t Time Out time. The t Time Out time can be a minimum of 2 seconds and a maximum of 255 seconds. Once the watchdog has been activated, the function block instance must be called cyclically at shorter intervals than t Time Out, since the CX1020 restarts automatically when t Time Out has elapsed. The watchdog can therefore be used to automatically reboot systems, which have entered an infinite loop or where the PLC has become stuck. The watchdog can be deactivated via b Enable = FALSE or t Time Out = T#0s. TE1000 Version: 1.6.3 11
## Page 12

Function Blocks Deactivate the watchdog before you use breakpoints, before a PLC reset or an overall reset, before a Twin CAT stop, before switching to Config mode or before the configuration is activated, because otherwise the CX1020 would reboot immediately once t Time Out has elapsed. Inputs VAR_INPUT t Time Out : TIME; b Enable : BOOL; END_VAR Name Type Description t Time Out TIME Watchdog time, after which a restart is performed. b Enable BOOL Activating/deactivating the watchdog. Outputs VAR_OUTPUT b Enabled : BOOL; b Error : BOOL; END_VAR Name Type Description b Enabled BOOL TRUE = Watchdog is active, FALSE = Watchdog is not active. b Error BOOL Error when activating or deactivating the watchdog. Requirements Development environment Target platform PLC libraries to include Twin CAT v3.1.0 CX (x86) Tc2_System CX 3.1.5 FB_CX1030Set Watchdog The function block FB_CX1030Set Watchdog activates a hardware watchdog on the CX1030. The watchdog is activated via b Enable = TRUE and the t Time Out time. The t Time Out time can be a minimum of 2 seconds and a maximum of 255 seconds. Once the watchdog has been activated, the function block instance must be called cyclically at shorter intervals than t Time Out, since the CX1030 restarts automatically when t Time Out has elapsed. The watchdog can therefore be used to automatically reboot systems, which have entered an infinite loop or where the PLC has become stuck. The watchdog can be deactivated via b Enable = FALSE or t Time Out = T#0s. Deactivate the watchdog before you use breakpoints, before a PLC reset or an overall reset, before a Twin CAT stop, before switching to Config mode or before the configuration is activated, because otherwise the CX1030 would reboot immediately once t Time Out has elapsed. Inputs VAR_INPUT t Time Out : TIME; b Enable : BOOL; END_VAR 12 Version: 1.6.3 TE1000
## Page 13

Function Blocks Name Type Description t Time Out TIME Watchdog time, after which a restart is performed. b Enable BOOL Activating/deactivating the watchdog. Outputs VAR_OUTPUT b Enabled : BOOL; b Error : BOOL; END_VAR Name Type Description b Enabled BOOL TRUE = Watchdog is active, FALSE = Watchdog is not active. b Error BOOL Error when activating or deactivating the watchdog. Requirements Development environment Target platform PLC libraries to include Twin CAT v3.1.0 CX (x86) Tc2_System CX 3.2 FB_CXProfiler The function block FB_CXProfiler can be used to measure the execution time of the PLC code under Microsoft Windows CE. For other operating systems, refer to the Profiler function block in the Tc2_Utilities library. Internally, an instance of the GETCPUCOUNTER function block is called. The measurement is started by a rising edge at the b Start input, and is stopped by a falling edge. The measurements are evaluated internally, and are then made available for further processing at the st Data output in a structure of type ST_CX_Profiler Struct [} 43]. As well as the current, minimum and maximum execution times, the function block calculates the mean execution time for the last 100 measurements. The times measured are given in microseconds. The output variable st Data.dw Measure Cycle [} 43] provides information about the number of measurements that have already been carried out. In order to measure the execution time for a specific segment of the PLC program the measurement must be started by a rising edge at the START input when the segment to be measured starts, and stopped by a falling edge at the START input at the end of the segment. All values at the DATA output can be reset if a rising edge is generated at the RESET input at the same time as the rising edge at START. The measured values in the DATA structure that have already been determined then become invalid, and are re-calculated when the function block is called again. Comment: The determined times can deviate from the actual values, since already for the calls of the GETCPUCOUNTER function block some time is needed. This time depends on the particular computer, and is included in the determined times. Task interruptions, e.g. by the NC, are not detected and lead to longer measuring times. Inputs VAR_INPUT b Start : BOOL; b Reset : BOOL; END_VAR TE1000 Version: 1.6.3 13
## Page 14

Function Blocks Name Type Description b Start BOOL A positive edge at this input starts the measurement of the execution time. A negative edge at this input stops the measurement, and causes the current, minimum, maximum and mean execution times to be recalculated. The variable st Data.dw Measure Cycle [} 43] is incremented at the same time. b Reset BOOL All variables at the DATA output are reset if a rising edge is generated at this input at the same time as a rising edge at the START input. The old values for the current, minimum, maximum and mean execution times are reset, and are re- calculated for following measurements. Outputs VAR_OUTPUT b Busy : BOOL; st Data : ST_CX_Profiler Struct; END_VAR Name Type Description b Busy BOOL This input is set at the start of the measuring procedure, and remains set until the time measurement has been completed. Once the b Busy output has been reset, the latest times are available at the st Data output. st Data ST_CX_Profiler Struct Structure of type ST_CX_Profiler Struct [} 43] with the measured times [in µs]. Requirements Development environment Target platform PLC libraries to include Twin CAT v3.1 CX (WEC6/7: TC RT x86, WEC7: Tc2_System CX TC CE7 Arm®V7) 3.3 FB_CXRead KBus Cycle Update Time The function block can be used for all CXs that are operated directly with K-bus terminals. The function block determines the update time of the K-bus (K-bus runtime) with min. and max. values. The min. and max. values can be reset. The K-bus runs task-synchronously with the PLC program. When the PLC program is completed, the K-bus is started, the outputs are written and the inputs are read. This means that a complete cycle always consists of the PLC runtime plus the K-bus update time. • If the sum of both values is smaller than the set task cycle time, your system runs synchronously and thus optimally. • If the sum is greater than your task cycle time, your system is no longer running in real time. It is recommended to avoid this state. You fix it by adjusting the task time, revising your PLC program or reducing the size of the K-bus. 14 Version: 1.6.3 TE1000
## Page 15

Function Blocks Inputs FUNCTION_BLOCK FB_CXRead KBus Cycle Update Time VAR_INPUT b Execute : BOOL; // rising edge triggers read process b Reset : BOOL; // set TRUE to reset the min. and max. values END_VAR Name Type Description b Execute BOOL A positive edge starts the function block. b Reset BOOL Reset of min. and max. values Outputs VAR_OUTPUT b Busy : BOOL; // FB is in process b Error : BOOL; // FB has an error n Error ID : UDINT; // ADS Error Code n KBus Min Update Time : UINT; // min. cycle update time in [µs] n KBus Max Update Time : UINT; // max. cycle update time in [µs] n KBus Last Update Time : UINT; // last cycle update time in [µs] END_VAR Name Type Description b Busy BOOL The function block is active and working. b Error BOOL The function block has an error. n Error ID UDINT ADS error code n KBus Min Update Time UINT Minimum update time in [µs] of the K-bus n KBus Max Update Time UINT Maximum update time in [µs] of the K-bus n KBus Last Update Time UINT Last update time in [µs] of the K-bus Development environment Target platform PLC libraries to include Twin CAT v3.1.4024.22 CX (x86, x64, Arm®) Tc2_System CX (System) >= 3.4.7.0 3.4 FB_CXRead KBus Error The function block enables further information to be read out about a K-bus error in order to obtain a more precise error image and to enable better diagnosis. The prerequisite for this is that you use the K-bus terminals directly on your CX. Example: If you are using the K-bus extension and the cable of the K-bus extension is disconnected, then you will see a K-bus interruption as n Error Code = 4 and the position where the K-bus has been interrupted as n Error Argument = Position. Further information on possible K-bus errors using the CX7000 as an example: https://infosys.beckhoff.com/content/1033/cx7000/9948355595.html?id=6787792405096234356 TE1000 Version: 1.6.3 15
## Page 16

Function Blocks Inputs FUNCTION_BLOCK FB_ CXRead KBus Error VAR_INPUT b Enable : BOOL; END_VAR Name Type Description b Enable BOOL Link this variable to bit 0 of the K-bus state to activate the read process automatically in case of a K-bus error. The K-bus State is a Word variable. To mask out bit 0 of your linked variables, you can use <Variable Name>.0. Outputs VAR_OUTPUT b Busy : BOOL; b Error : BOOL; n Error ID : UDINT; b KBus Error : BOOL; n KBus Error Code : UINT; n KBus Error Argument : UINT; END_VAR Name Type Description b Busy BOOL The function block is active and working. b Error BOOL The function block has an error. n Error ID UDINT ADS error code b KBus Error BOOL The K-bus has an error. Further information is available at the outputs n KBus Error Code and n KBus Error Argument. n KBus Error Code UINT K-bus error code n KBus Error Argument UINT K-bus error argument Once the error has been corrected, the K-bus can be restarted via the function block IOF_Device Reset (from the PLC library Tc2_Io Functions). Development environment Target platform PLC libraries to include Twin CAT v3.1.4024.22 CX (x86, x64, Arm®) Tc2_System CX (System) >= 3.4.7.0 3.5 FB_CXSet Text Display The functionblock FB_CXSet Text Display can be used to send text messages to the two line display of the CX1100. Inputs VAR_INPUT b Execute : BOOL; n Dev ID : UDINT; n Mode : E_CX1100_Display Modes; st Line : STRING(20); n Cursor Pos : DWORD; END_VAR 16 Version: 1.6.3 TE1000
## Page 17

Function Blocks Name Type Description b Execute BOOL The command is executed with a rising edge. n Dev ID UDINT Device ID of the CX1100 device. n Mode E_CX1100_Display Modes Mode switching st Line STRING String with 20 characters. This string is shown in the display with the corresponding command. n Cursor Pos DWORD Cursor position. The string is written from this position in the display. Outputs VAR_OUTPUT b Busy : BOOL; b Err : BOOL; n Error ID : UDINT; END_VAR Name Type Description b Busy BOOL The command is in the process of being transmitted by ADS. No new command will be accepted as long as b Busy remains TRUE. b Err BOOL Becomes TRUE, as soon as an error occurs. n Error ID UDINT Supplies the error number when the b Error output is set. Requirements Development environment Target platform PLC libraries to include Twin CAT v3.1.0 CX (x86) Tc2_System CX 3.6 FB_CXSet Text Display USB The function block is used for the CX2100 and for the EL6090 terminal. When the function block is called, only the matching Net ID and port number for the respective device has to be allocated. n Port: s Net ID CX2100 Is displayed in Twin CAT on the ESB Is the Net ID of the PC or is left blank (‘ ‘). device tab. EL6090 Is the Ether CAT address of the terminal Is the Ether CAT address of the Ether CAT master. The function block FB_CXSet Text Display USB is used to write and delete messages on the two-line display. The cursor is controlled on the display by switching it on and off or by making it flash. The function block is also used to switch the backlight on or off. TE1000 Version: 1.6.3 17
## Page 18

Function Blocks Inputs VAR_INPUT b Execute : BOOL; s Net ID : T_Ams Net ID; n Port : T_Ams Port; e Mode : E_CX2100_Display Modes Wr; s Line1 : STRING(80); s Line2 : STRING(80); n Cursor Pos X : USINT; n Cursor Posy : USINT; END_VAR Name Type Description b Execute BOOL The command is executed with a rising edge. s Net ID T_Ams Net ID AMSNet ID of the device n Port T_Ams Port Ams Port of the device e Mode E_CX2100_Display Modes Rd Mode switching s Line1 STRING String with 80 characters. This string is displayed with the corresponding command in the first line. For strings with more than 16 characters, the text is displayed as scrolling text. s Line2 STRING String with 80 characters. This string is displayed with the corresponding command in the second line. For strings with more than 16 characters, the text is displayed as scrolling text. n Cursor Pos X USINT Cursor position on the X axis. The string is written from this position in the display. n Cursor Pos Y USINT Cursor position on the Y axis. The string is written from this position in the display. Outputs VAR_OUTPUT b Busy : BOOL; b Error : BOOL; n Error ID : UDINT; END_VAR Name Type Description b Busy BOOL The command is in the process of being transmitted by ADS. No new command will be accepted as long as b Busy remains TRUE. b Error BOOL Becomes TRUE, as soon as an error occurs. n Error ID UDINT Supplies the error number when the b Error output is set. Requirements when using the EL6090 Development environment Target platform PLC libraries to include Twin CAT v3.1 PC or CX (WES7/Win10: TC RT Tc2_System CX x86/x64, WEC6/7: TC RT x86, WEC7: TC CE7 ARMV7, TC/BSD: TC RT x64, TC OS Arm®T2) Requirements when using the CX2100 Development environment Target platform PLC libraries to include Twin CAT v3.1 CX (WES7/Win10: TC RT x86/x64, Tc2_System CX WEC6/7: TC RT x86, TC/BSD: TC RT x64) 18 Version: 1.6.3 TE1000
## Page 19

Function Blocks 3.7 FB_CXGet Text Display USB The function block is used for the CX2100 and for the EL6090 terminal. When the function block is called, only the matching Net ID and port number for the respective device has to be allocated. n Port: s Net ID CX2100 Is displayed in Twin CAT on the ESB Is the Net ID of the PC or is left blank (‘ ‘). device tab. EL6090 Is the Ether CAT address of the terminal Is the Ether CAT address of the Ether CAT master. The function block FB_CXGet Text Display USB is used to read the lines on the display. In addition, the cursor status is read, i.e. cursor switched on or off, or is flashing. The function block also indicates whether the backlight is switched on or off. Inputs VAR_INPUT b Execute : BOOL; s Net ID : T_Ams Net ID; n Port : T_Ams Port; e Mode : E_CX2100_Display Modes Rd; END_VAR Name Type Description b Execute BOOL The command is executed with a rising edge. s Net ID T_Ams Net ID AMSNet ID of the device n Port T_Ams Port Ams Port of the device e Mode E_CX2100_Display Modes Rd Mode switching Outputs VAR_OUTPUT b Busy : BOOL; b Error : BOOL; n Error ID : UDINT; s Line1 : STRING(80); s Line2 : STRING(80); n Cursor Pos X : USINT; n Cursor Pos Y : USINT; n Cursor Mode : USINT; n Backlight : USINT; END_VAR TE1000 Version: 1.6.3 19
## Page 20

Function Blocks Name Type Description b Busy BOOL The command is in the process of being transmitted by ADS. No new command will be accepted as long as b Busy remains TRUE. b Error BOOL Becomes TRUE, as soon as an error occurs. n Error ID UDINT Supplies the error number when the b Error output is set. s Line1 STRING This string is read with the corresponding command. s Line2 STRING This string is read with the corresponding command. n Cursor Pos X USINT Cursor position on the X axis n Cursor Pos Y USINT Cursor position on the Y axis n Cursor Mode USINT Cursor mode n Backlight USINT Backlight Requirements when using the CX2100 Development environment Target platform PLC libraries to include Twin CAT v3.1 CX (WES7/Win10: TC RT x86/x64, Tc2_System CX WEC6/7: TC RT x86, TC/BSD: TC RT x64) Requirements when using the EL6090 Development environment Target platform PLC libraries to include Twin CAT v3.1 PC or CX (WES7/Win10: TC RT Tc2_System CX x86/x64, WEC6/7: TC RT x86, WEC7: TC CE7 ARMV7, TC/BSD: TC RT x64, TC OS Arm®T2) 3.8 FB_CXSimple Ups The function block FB_CXSimple Ups can be used on the CX1000 or CX1020 in order to activate the UPS CX1190-UPS from the PLC. In this case the UPS settings must be deactivated in the Twin CAT System Manager. 20 Version: 1.6.3 TE1000
## Page 21

Function Blocks Inputs VAR_INPUT b DIPDisable : BOOL; i Discharge Level : USINT; t Delay : TIME; END_VAR Name Type Description b DIPDisable BOOL If b DIPDIsable = TRUE, then the position of the charge level switch on the UPS is ignored and i Discharge Level is used instead. i Discharge Level USINT Discharge switch-off threshold: 0 = 100% (maximum discharge), 9 = 90%, 8 = 80%, ..., 2 = 20%, 1 = 10% (minimum discharge). t Delay TIME Holding time before the shutdown is carried out. It is used to bridge short power failures (up to 10 s). After exceeding the holding time, the holding period is aborted. Internally the FB waits for 2.5 s. If the voltage has returned by then, the FB returns to normal operation, otherwise the system is shut down. If the voltage returns during or after shutdown, the CX automatically reboots after discharging and recharging the UPS. Outputs VAR_OUTPUT b Power Failure : BOOL; b Shutdown Active : BOOL; b Ups Ready : BOOL; b24VIn OK : BOOL; b Holding : BOOL; TE1000 Version: 1.6.3 21
## Page 22

Function Blocks t Time Until Shutdown : TIME; e Ups State : E_UPS_STATE; END_VAR Name Type Description b Power Failure BOOL Becomes TRUE when a power failure of the supply voltage is detected, becomes FALSE when the input voltage returns. b Shutdown Activ BOOL Becomes TRUE as soon as the stop or shutdown is executed. e b Ups Ready BOOL Becomes TRUE as soon as the 24 V input voltage is available. b24VIn OK BOOL Becomes TRUE as soon as the UPS provides the output voltage. b Holding BOOL Becomes TRUE as soon as a failure in the supply voltage has been detected, and the holding time has not yet elapsed. t Time Until Shutd TIME Indicates the holding time remaining until shutdown. own e Ups State E_UPS_STATE Displays the status of the UPS [UNDEF | CHARGING | CHARGED | DISCHARGE | DISCHARGE_RESTART | OUTPUT_OFF | OVERLOAD]. Configuration variables VAR_CONFIG Ii24VState AT %I* : BYTE; Ii Charge State AT %I* : USINT; Qi Control AT %Q* : BYTE; Qi Dip Control AT %Q* : USINT; END_VAR Name Type Description Ii24VState BYTE Must be linked with input '24V State', see picture above. Ii Charge State USINT Must be linked with input 'Charge State', see picture above. Qi Control BYTE Must be linked with output 'Contol', see picture above. Qi Dip Control USINT Must be linked with output 'DIP Ctrl', see picture above. Requirements Development environment Target platform PLC libraries to include Twin CAT v3.1.0 CX (x86) Tc2_System CX For other CX and PC refer to the function block FB_S_SUPS_BAPI in the Tc2_SUPS library. 3.9 FB_CX5010Set Watchdog The function block FB_CX5010Set Watchdog activates a hardware watchdog on the CX5010. The watchdog is activated via b Enable = TRUE and the t Time Out time. The t Time Out time can be a minimum of 2 seconds and a maximum of 255 seconds. Once the watchdog has been activated, the function block instance must be called cyclically at shorter intervals than t Time Out, since the CX5010 restarts automatically when t Time Out has elapsed. The watchdog can therefore be used to automatically reboot systems, which have entered an infinite loop or where the PLC has become stuck. The watchdog can be deactivated via b Enable = FALSE or t Time Out = T#0s. 22 Version: 1.6.3 TE1000
## Page 23

Function Blocks NOTICE The watchdog must be deactivated before breakpoints are used, before a PLC reset or an overall reset, before a Twin CAT stop, before switching to Config mode or before the configuration is activated, because otherwise the CX5010 would reboot immediately once t Time Out has elapsed. Inputs VAR_INPUT t Time Out : TIME; b Enable : BOOL; END_VAR Name Type Description t Time Out TIME Watchdog time, after which a restart is performed. b Enable BOOL Activating/deactivating the watchdog. Outputs VAR_OUTPUT b Enabled : BOOL; b Error : BOOL; END_VAR Name Type Description b Enabled BOOL TRUE = Watchdog is active, FALSE = Watchdog is not active. b Error BOOL Error when activating or deactivating the watchdog. Requirements Development environment Target platform PLC libraries to include Twin CAT v3.1.0 CX (x86) Tc2_System CX 3.10 FB_CX5020Set Watchdog The function block FB_CX5020Set Watchdog activates a hardware watchdog on the CX5020. The watchdog is activated via b Enable = TRUE and the t Time Out time. The t Time Out time can be a minimum of 2 seconds and a maximum of 255 seconds. Once the watchdog has been activated, the function block instance must be called cyclically at shorter intervals than t Time Out, since the CX5020 restarts automatically when t Time Out has elapsed. The watchdog can therefore be used to automatically reboot systems, which have entered an infinite loop or where the PLC has become stuck. The watchdog can be deactivated via b Enable = FALSE or t Time Out = T#0s. NOTICE The watchdog must be deactivated before breakpoints are used, before a PLC reset or an overall reset, before a Twin CAT stop, before switching to Config mode or before the configuration is activated, because otherwise the CX5020 would reboot immediately once t Time Out has elapsed. Inputs VAR_INPUT t Time Out : TIME; b Enable : BOOL; END_VAR TE1000 Version: 1.6.3 23
## Page 24

Function Blocks Name Type Description t Time Out TIME Watchdog time, after which a restart is performed. b Enable BOOL Activating/deactivating the watchdog. Outputs VAR_OUTPUT b Enabled : BOOL; b Error : BOOL; END_VAR Name Type Description b Enabled BOOL TRUE = Watchdog is active, FALSE = Watchdog is not active. b Error BOOL Error when activating or deactivating the watchdog. Requirements Development environment Target platform PLC libraries to include Twin CAT v3.1.0 CX (x86) Tc2_System CX 3.11 FB_CX7000_LED_ERR The function block allows the use of the ERR LED on the CX7000. The function block is immediately active when it is called and controls the ERR LED via the mode. The ERR LED of the CX7000 can be used to make the states of the PLC program, communication or other indications externally visible. The ERR LED has two colors, red and green. If both colors are switched on, the LED lights up yellow. You can either turn the LED on or make it flash. User-specific function of the LEDs Due to the user-specific usability of the LEDs, Beckhoff Support cannot know the meaning of a flashing code and cannot support the customer. • Document the function of the LEDs for your customers. Inputs VAR_INPUT b Enable : BOOL; // set TRUE to enable LED handling; Reset in order to re set error e LED : E_CX7000_LED; // LED flashing mode t Flashing Time P1 : TIME:=T#250MS; // Flashing Time >=200ms first pulse t Flashing Time P2 : TIME:=T#250MS; // Flashing Time >=200ms second pulse END_VAR Name TYPE Description b Enable BOOL The function block controls the LED as soon as and as long as the input is TRUE. e LED E_CX7000_LED LED mode t Flashing Time P1 TIME Time for the first pulse (>= 200 ms) t Flashing Time P2 TIME Time for the second pulse (>= 200 ms) 24 Version: 1.6.3 TE1000
## Page 25

Function Blocks Outputs VAR_OUTPUT b Error : BOOL; // error flag n Error ID : UDINT; (* ADS Error ID. If n Error ID=DEVICE_SRVNOTSUPP probably the image version need to be updated to support this feature. *) END_VAR Name Type Description b Error BOOL The function block has an error. n Error ID UDINT ADS Error Code Example: DEVICE_SRVNOTSUPP: the image version of the CX7000 does not support this feature. An update (>=35695) is necessary. Sample: VAR BK9000_Box State AT %I* : WORD; fb Error LED : FB_CX7000_LED_ERR; END_VAR IF BK9000_Box State=0 THEN fb Error LED.e LED :=E_CX7000_LED. LED_flashing_GREEN_OFF; ELSE fb Error LED.e LED :=E_CX7000_LED. LED_flashing_RED_OFF; END_IF fb Error LED( b Enable := TRUE, t Flashing Time P1 := , t Flashing Time P2 := , b Error => , n Error ID => ); Function block can only be used for CX7000 The function block can and must only be used for the CX7000. 3.12 FB_CX7000_LED_WD The function block allows the use of the WD LED on the CX7000. The function block is immediately active with the call and controls the WD LED via the mode. You can use the WD LED of the CX7000 to make the states of the PLC program, communication or other indications externally visible. The WD LED has two colors, red and green. If both colors are switched on, the LED lights up yellow. You can turn on the LED and/or make it flash. User-specific function of the LEDs Due to the user-specific usability of the LEDs, Beckhoff Support cannot know the meaning of a flashing code and cannot support the customer. • Document the function of the LEDs for your customers. Inputs VAR_INPUT b Enable : BOOL; // set TRUE to enable LED handling; Reset in order to re set error e LED : E_CX7000_LED; // LED flashing mode TE1000 Version: 1.6.3 25
## Page 26

Function Blocks t Flashing Time P1 : TIME:=T#250MS; // Flashing Time >=200ms first pulse t Flashing Time P2 : TIME:=T#250MS; // Flashing Time >=200ms second pulse END_VAR Name Type Description b Enable BOOL The function block controls the LED as soon as and as long as the input is TRUE. e LED E_CX7000_LED LED mode t Flashing Time P1 TIME Time for the first pulse (>= 200 ms) t Flashing Time P2 TIME Time for the second pulse (>= 200 ms) Outputs VAR_OUTPUT b Error : BOOL; // error flag n Error ID : UDINT; (* ADS Error ID. If n Error ID=DEVICE_SRVNOTSUPP probably the image v ersion need to be updated to support this feature. *) END_VAR Name Type Description b Error BOOL The function block has an error. n Error ID UDINT ADS Error Code Example: DEVICE_SRVNOTSUPP: the image version of the CX7000 does not support this feature. An update (>=35695) is necessary. Function block can only be used for CX7000 The function block can and must only be used for the CX7000. 3.13 FB_CX7080_LED_ERR You can use the WD/ERR LEDs of the CX7080 to display the states of the PLC program, communication, or other information. The function block allows setting the ERR LED of the CX7080. The LED has two colors, red and green. If both colors are activated, the LED will be yellow. You therefore have three colors at your disposal. You can turn on the LED and/or make it flash. To use the LED, the corresponding COM port must be included in the configuration. The RS485 interface is linked to the ERR LED. The function block should be called cyclically. The desired LED mode can be selected or changed using e LED. User-specific function of the LEDs Due to the user-specific usability of the LEDs, Beckhoff Support cannot know the meaning of a flashing code and cannot support the customer. • Document the function of the LEDs for your customers. 26 Version: 1.6.3 TE1000
## Page 27

Function Blocks Inputs VAR_INPUT b Enable : BOOL; // set TRUE to enable LED handling; Reset in order to reset e rror e LED : E_CX7080_LED; // LED flashing mode END_VAR Name Type Description b Enable BOOL The function block activates the LED as soon as and as long as the input is TRUE. e LED E_CX7080_LED LED mode Outputs VAR_OUTPUT b Error : BOOL; // error flag n Error ID : UDINT; (* ADS Error ID. If n Error ID=DEVICE_NOTFOUND probably the COM port is not set in the TC config. If n Error ID=DEVICE_SRVNOTSUPP probably the image version need to be updated to support this feature. *) END_VAR Name Type Description b Error BOOL Error in function block. n Error ID UDINT ADS Error Code Examples: DEVICE_NOTFOUND: The COM port is probably not included in the Twin CAT system configuration. DEVICE_SRVNOTSUPP: The image version of the CX7080 does not support this feature. An update (>=35695) is necessary. Function block can only be used for CX7080 The function block can and must only be used for the CX7080. Requirements Development environment Target platform PLC libraries to include Twin CAT v3.1.4024.26 CX 7080 Tc2_System CX (System) >= 3.4.8.0 3.14 FB_CX7080_LED_WD You can use the WD/ERR LEDs of the CX7080 to display the states of the PLC program, communication, or other information. The function block allows setting the WD LED of the CX7080. The LED has two colors, red and green. If both colors are activated, the LED will be yellow. You therefore have three colors at your disposal. You can turn on the LED and/or make it flash. To use the LED, the corresponding COM port must be included in the configuration. The RS232 interface is linked to the WD LED. The function block should be called cyclically. The desired LED mode can be selected or changed using e LED. TE1000 Version: 1.6.3 27
## Page 28

Function Blocks User-specific function of the LEDs Due to the user-specific usability of the LEDs, Beckhoff Support cannot know the meaning of a flashing code and cannot support the customer. • Document the function of the LEDs for your customers. Inputs VAR_INPUT b Enable : BOOL; // set TRUE to enable LED handling; Reset in order to reset e rror e LED : E_CX7080_LED; // LED flashing mode END_VAR Name Type Description b Enable BOOL The function block activates the LED as soon as and as long as the input is TRUE. e LED E_CX7080_LED LED mode Outputs VAR_OUTPUT b Error : BOOL; // error flag n Error ID : UDINT; (* ADS Error ID. If n Error ID=DEVICE_NOTFOUND probably the COM port is not set in the TC config. If n Error ID=DEVICE_SRVNOTSUPP probably the image version need to be updated to support this feature. *) END_VAR Name Type Description b Error BOOL Error in function block. n Error ID UDINT ADS Error Code Examples: DEVICE_NOTFOUND: The COM port is probably not included in the Twin CAT system configuration. DEVICE_SRVNOTSUPP: The image version of the CX7080 does not support this feature. An update (>=35695) is necessary. Function block can only be used for CX7080 The function block can and must only be used for the CX7080. Requirements Development environment Target platform PLC libraries to include Twin CAT v3.1.4024.26 CX 7080 Tc2_System CX (System) >= 3.4.8.0 3.15 FB_CX70xx_RW_EEPROM The function block allows a maximum of 120 bytes to be written to the EEPROM (hardware) of the CX70xx. The EEPROM may be written to a maximum of 200 times. The memory is intended for one-time writing. 28 Version: 1.6.3 TE1000
## Page 29

Function Blocks This function block can be used to personalize the CX70xx. That means, in the simplest case you write your company ID into the EEPROM. When starting the CX70xx program, read the contents of the memory. For example, if it is empty, you cannot continue to run the program because it is no longer your original CX70xx that you programmed. If you want to exchange a CX70xx for a new device, the EEPROM must be written again by you. Inputs VAR_INPUT b Execute : BOOL; // rising edge triggers process with selected mode e Mode : E_CX70xx_EEPROM_Mode; // select RW mode p Src Buf : PVOID; // pointer to WRITE EEPROM data buffer cb Src Buf Size : UINT; // size of WRITE EEPROM data buffer (max.120 Bytes) p Dst Buf : PVOID; // pointer to READ EEPROM data buffer cb Dst Buf Size : UINT; // max.size of READ EEPROM data buffer (max.120 Bytes) END_VAR Name Type Description b Execute BOOL A positive edge starts the function block. e Mode E_CX70xx_ Read Only: EEPROM read EEPROM_M Write Only: EEPROM write ode Write And Read: EEPROM write and read p Src Buf PVOID Pointer to the data buffer to be written. cb Src Buf Len UINT Length of data to be written (max. 120 bytes) p Dst Buf PVOID Pointer to the data buffer into which the contents of the EEPROM are to be copied. cb Dst Buf Len UINT Length of data to be read. (maximum 120 bytes) When reading, the length information must be greater than or equal to the data contained in the EEPROM. Outputs VAR_OUTPUT b Busy : BOOL; // FB is working b Error : BOOL; // FB has an Error n Error ID : UDINT; (* Error Code If n Error ID=DEVICE_INVALIDACCESS the EEPROM write cycles reached max. value. If n Error ID=DEVICE_INVALIDPARM the given pointer parameter is invalid/null. If n Error ID=DEVICE_INVALIDSIZE the given buffer size is too small or too big. If n Error ID=DEVICE_SRVNOTSUPP probably the image version need to be updated to support this feat ure. *) n Data Size EEPROM : UINT; // current size of (read) EEPROM data in bytes (max.120 Bytes) n Writes Cycles : UINT; // already performed EEPROM write cycles (maximum possible = 20 0) END_VAR Name Type Description b Busy BOOL The function block is active and working. b Error BOOL The function block has an error. n Error ID UDINT ADS Error Code Examples: DEVICE_INVALIDACCESS: the EEPROM write cycles have reached the maximum value. The EEPROM cannot be rewritten. DEVICE_INVALIDPARM: the allocated pointers are invalid/NULL. DEVICE_INVALIDSIZE: the allocated buffer size is too small or too large. DEVICE_SRVNOTSUPP: the image version of the CX70xx does not support this feature. An update (>=35695) is necessary. n Data Size EEPROM UINT Current size in bytes of the read EEPROM data n Writes Cycles UINT Number of write operations still available TE1000 Version: 1.6.3 29
## Page 30

Function Blocks 3.16 FB_CX70xx_Reset On Board IO The function block allows to execute a reset from the On Board I/O of the CX70xx Embedded PC. Typical use case is after an error in the communication to the On Board I/Os (CX7028). Such an error occurs when the power supply (Up) of the On Board I/Os is interrupted. NOTICE State of the I/Os Outputs that are still set in the process image are switched on again immediately after a reset. Further details on the On Board I/O can be found in the documentation of the CX70xx Embedded PC. Inputs VAR_INPUT b Execute : BOOL; // rising edge triggers process s Net Id : T_Ams Net ID; // AMS Net ID of the On Board IOs t Timeout : TIME := DEFAULT_ADS_TIMEOUT; // maximum time allowed for execution of this ADS c ommand END_VAR Name Type Description b Execute BOOL A positive edge starts the function block. s Net Id T_Ams Net ID AMS Net ID of the On Board I/Os t Timeout TIME States the length of the timeout that may not be exceeded by execution of the ADS command. Outputs VAR_OUTPUT b Busy : BOOL; // FB is working b Error : BOOL; // FB has an Error n Error ID : UDINT; (* Error Code. If n Error ID=DEVICE_SRVNOTSUPP probably the image versio n need to be updated to support this feature. *) END_VAR Name Type Description b Busy BOOL The function block is active and working. b Error BOOL The function block has an error. n Error ID UDINT ADS Error Code Examples: DEVICE_SRVNOTSUPP: the image version of the CX70xx does not support this feature. An update (>=47912) is necessary. Sample: FUNCTION_BLOCK FB_Test_Reset Onboard IO VAR AMSNet ID : T_Ams Net Id Arr; // link to the AMS Net ID of the On Board IOs State : WORD; // link to the State of the On Board IOs b Reset : BOOL; // if Ready to Reset you can reset the On Board IOs fb Reset : FB_CX70xx_Reset On Board IO; END_VAR IF State<>8 AND NOT State.8 AND State.4 THEN // if On Board IO device signals an error and is not OP but present b Reset := TRUE; ELSE b Reset := FALSE; END_IF 30 Version: 1.6.3 TE1000
## Page 31

Function Blocks IF NOT fb Reset.b Busy AND b Reset THEN fb Reset(b Execute:=TRUE, s Net Id:=F_Create Ams Net Id(AMSNet ID)); ELSE fb Reset(b Execute:=FALSE); END_IF TE1000 Version: 1.6.3 31
## Page 32

Functions 4 Functions 4.1 [obsolete] 4.1.1 F_Get Version Tc CXSystem The function returns library version info. Inputs VAR_INPUT n Version Element : INT; END_VAR Name Type Description n Version Element INT Version element to be read. Possible parameters: • 1: major number • 2: minor number • 3: revision number 4.1.2 F_Get Version Tc System CX1000 The function returns library version info. Inputs VAR_INPUT n Version Element : INT; END_VAR Name Type Description n Version Element INT Version element to be read. Possible parameters: • 1: major number • 2: minor number • 3: revision number 4.1.3 F_Get Version Tc System CX1010 This function can be used to read the version information of the PLC library. Inputs VAR_INPUT n Version Element : INT; END_VAR 32 Version: 1.6.3 TE1000
## Page 33

Functions Name Type Description n Version Element INT Version element to be read. Possible parameters: • 1: major number • 2: minor number • 3: revision number 4.1.4 F_Get Version Tc System CX1020 This function can be used to read the version information of the PLC library. Inputs VAR_INPUT n Version Element : INT; END_VAR Name Type Description n Version Element INT Version element to be read. Possible parameters: • 1: major number • 2: minor number • 3: revision number 4.1.5 F_Get Version Tc System CX1030 This function can be used to read the version information of the PLC library. Inputs VAR_INPUT n Version Element : INT; END_VAR Name Type Description n Version Element INT Version element to be read. Possible parameters: • 1: major number • 2: minor number • 3: revision number 4.1.6 F_Get Version Tc System CX5010 This function can be used to read the version information of the PLC library. Inputs VAR_INPUT n Version Element : INT; END_VAR TE1000 Version: 1.6.3 33
## Page 34

Functions Name Type Description n Version Element INT Version element to be read. Possible parameters: • 1: major number • 2: minor number • 3: revision number 4.1.7 F_Get Version Tc System CX5020 This function can be used to read the version information of the PLC library. Inputs VAR_INPUT n Version Element : INT; END_VAR Name Type Description n Version Element INT Version element to be read. Possible parameters: • 1: major number • 2: minor number • 3: revision number 4.1.8 F_Get Version Tc System CX9000 This function can be used to read the version information of the PLC library. Inputs VAR_INPUT n Version Element : INT; END_VAR Name Type Description n Version Element INT Version element to be read. Possible parameters: • 1: major number • 2: minor number • 3: revision number 4.1.9 F_Get Version Tc System CX9010 This function can be used to read the version information of the PLC library. 34 Version: 1.6.3 TE1000
## Page 35

Functions Inputs VAR_INPUT n Version Element : INT; END_VAR Name Type Description n Version Element INT Version element to be read. Possible parameters: • 1: major number • 2: minor number • 3: revision number 4.1.10 F_CXSub Time Stamp For subtraction Twin CAT3.1 also offers 64-bit data types (LINT/ULINT, LWORD) that can be executed directly (A-B) or there are TC2-compatible functions for 64-bit operations that should be used as an alternative to F_CXSub Time Stamp. The function F_CXSub Time Stamp executes a 64-bit subtraction time stamp A - time stamp B and converts the result to µs. The required 64-bit time stamps with 100 ns resolution can be read from the system with the function block GETCPUCOUNTER. If the difference between time stamp A and time stamp B is negative or greater than 4294967295 us, the maximum value 4294967295 us is returned. This corresponds to 71 minutes, 34 seconds, 967 milliseconds and 295 microseconds. In such cases the function UInt64Sub64() from Tc Utilities.lib can be used to execute a complete 64-bit subtraction with 64-bit result in [100 ns]. FUNCTION F_CXSub Time Stamp: UDINT VAR_INPUT n Time Stamp Lo DW_A : UDINT; (* 2*32 bit time stamp A: low DWORD *) n Time Stamp Hi DW_A : UDINT; (* 2*32 bit time stamp A: high DWORD *) n Time Stamp Lo DW_B : UDINT; (* 2*32 bit time stamp B: low DWORD *) n Time Stamp Hi DW_B : UDINT; (* 2*32 bit time stamp B: high DWORD *) END_END_VAR n Time Stamp Lo DW_A: lower 32bit of time stamp A. n Time Stamp Hi DW_A: upper 32bit of time stamp A. n Time Stamp Lo DW_B: lower 32bit of time stamp B. n Time Stamp Hi DW_B: upper 32bit of time stamp B. Requirements Development environment Target platform PLC libraries to include Twin CAT v3.1 CX (WES7/Win10: TC RT x86/x64, Tc2_System CX WEC6/7 :TC TR x86, WEC7: TC CE7 Arm®V7) 4.1.11 F_CX1000Set Watchdog TE1000 Version: 1.6.3 35
## Page 36

Functions The function F_CX1000Set Watchdog activates a hardware watchdog on the CX1000. The watchdog is activated via b Enable = TRUE and the t Timeout time. The t Timeout time can be a minimum of several PLC task cycles (multiple of the call time of the function F_CX1000Set Watchdog) and a maximum of 65 s and 535 ms. Once the watchdog has been activated, the function must be called cyclically at shorter intervals than t Time Out, since the CX1000 restarts automatically when t Time Out has elapsed. The watchdog can therefore be used to automatically reboot systems, which have entered an infinite loop or where the PLC has become stuck. The watchdog can be deactivated via b Enable = FALSE or t Time Out = 0. NOTICE The watchdog must be deactivated before breakpoints are used, before a PLC reset or an overall reset, before a Twin CAT stop, before switching to Config mode or before the configuration is activated, because otherwise the CX1000 would reboot immediately once the timeout has elapsed. FUNCTION F_CX1000Set Watchdog: BOOL VAR_INPUT t Timeout : TIME; b Enable : BOOL; END_VAR t Time Out: Watchdog time, if expired a reboot is automatically executed. b Enable: Activate or deactivate the watchdog. Requirements Development environment Target platform PLC libraries to include Twin CAT v3.1.0 CX (x86) Tc2_System CX 4.1.12 F_CX9000Set Watchdog The function F_CX9000Set Watchdog activates a hardware watchdog on the CX9000. The watchdog is activated via b Enable = TRUE and the t Time Out time. The t Time Out time can be a maximum of 65 seconds and 535 milliseconds. Once the watchdog has been activated, the function must be called cyclically at shorter intervals than t Time Out, since the CX9000 restarts automatically when t Time Out has elapsed. The watchdog can therefore be used to automatically reboot systems, which have entered an infinite loop or where the PLC has become stuck. The watchdog can be deactivated via b Enable = FALSE or t Time Out = T#0s. NOTICE The watchdog must be deactivated before breakpoints are used, before a PLC reset or an overall reset, before a Twin CAT stop, before switching to Config mode or before the configuration is activated, because otherwise the CX9000 would reboot immediately once t Time Out has elapsed. FUNCTION F_CX9000Set Watchdog: BOOL VAR_INPUT t Timeout : TIME; b Enable : BOOL; END_VAR t Time Out: Watchdog time, if expired a reboot is automatically executed. b Enable: Activate or deactivate the watchdog. 36 Version: 1.6.3 TE1000
## Page 37

Functions Requirements Development environment Target system type PLC libraries to include Twin CAT v3.1.0 CX (Arm®) Tc2_System CX 4.1.13 F_CX9010Set Watchdog The function F_CX9010Set Watchdog activates a hardware watchdog on the CX9000. The watchdog is activated via b Enable = TRUE and the t Time Out time. The t Time Out time can be a maximum of 65 seconds and 535 milliseconds. Once the watchdog has been activated, the function must be called cyclically at shorter intervals than t Time Out, since the CX9010 restarts automatically when t Time Out has elapsed. The watchdog can therefore be used to automatically reboot systems, which have entered an infinite loop or where the PLC has become stuck. The watchdog can be deactivated via b Enable = FALSE or t Time Out = T#0s. NOTICE The watchdog must be deactivated before breakpoints are used, before a PLC reset or an overall reset, before a Twin CAT stop, before switching to Config mode or before the configuration is activated, because otherwise the CX9010 would reboot immediately once t Time Out has elapsed. FUNCTION F_CX9010Set Watchdog: BOOL VAR_INPUT t Timeout : TIME; b Enable : BOOL; END_VAR t Time Out: Watchdog time, if expired a reboot is automatically executed. b Enable: Activate or deactivate the watchdog. Requirements Development environment Target system type PLC libraries to include Twin CAT v3.1.0 CX (Arm®) Tc2_System CX 4.2 F_CXNavi Switch The function F_CXNavi Switch converts the value of the CX1100 navigation switch into an enum value of type E_CX1100_Navi Switch. Return value Name Type Description F_CXNavi S E_CX1100_Navi Switch Output value of the conversion; input 'IN' witch TE1000 Version: 1.6.3 37
## Page 38

Functions Inputs VAR_INPUT i CX1100_IN : USINT; END_VAR Name Type Description i CX1100_I USINT Input value of the conversion N Requirements Development environment Target platform PLC libraries to include Twin CAT v3.1.0 CX (x86) Tc2_System CX 4.3 F_CXNavi Switch USB The function F_CXNavi Switch USB converts the value of the CX2100 navigation switch or an EL6090 into an enum value of type E_CX2100_Navi Switch. FUNCTION F_CXNavi Switch USB: E_CX2100_Navi Switch VAR_INPUT icx2100_IN : USINT; END_VAR icx2100_IN: Value of the CX2100 input 'IN‘ Requirements when using the CX2100 Development environment Target platform PLC libraries to include Twin CAT v3.1 CX (WES7/Win10: TC RT x86/x64, Tc2_System CX WEC6/7: TC RT x86, TC/BSD: TC RT x64) Requirements when using the EL6090 Development environment Target platform PLC libraries to include Twin CAT v3.1 PC or CX (WES7/Win10: TC RT Tc2_System CX x86/x64, WEC6/7: TC RT x86, WEC7: TC CE7 ARMV7, TC/BSD: TC RT x64, TC OS Arm®T2) 4.4 F_CX81xx_ADDRESS This function reads the position of the address selection switch (DIP switch) of the CXxxxx. One possible application is that you can activate different program parts in the PLC depending on the switch position. Return value F_CX80xx_ADDRESS : INT; 38 Version: 1.6.3 TE1000
## Page 39

Functions Name Type Description F_CX80xx_ INT Position of the address selection switch; ADDRESS If -1, CX not implemented, Inputs VAR_INPUT i CX_Typ : INT; (* Use product code without 'CX' e.g.: CX8180 -> 8180 *) END_VAR Name Type Description i CX_Typ INT Requirements Development environ- Target platform Hardware PLC libraries to include ment Twin CAT v3.1 Build Arm® CXxxxx Tc2_System CX 4022.30 4.5 F_CX8180_LED_ERR As the CX8180 supports various protocols, the two LEDs WD and ERR on the CX8180 are not used by the firmware. This allows users to create their own diagnosis messages. The LEDs can be used to indicate, for example, whether the CX8180 has received an IP address from the DHCP server or whether devices are exchanging data. The F_CX8180_LED_ERR function controls the ERR LED on the CX8180. Various color and flashing modes can be used here. The possible LED colors are red and green. Return value F_ F_CX8180_LED_ERR : INT; Name Type Description F_CX8180 INT -1: flash code not implemented; _LED_ERR 0: OK Inputs VAR_INPUT e Mode : E_CX81x0_LED; END_VAR Name Type Description e Mode E_CX81x0_LED The operating mode of the LED, see also E_CX81x0_LED [} 44]. Requirements Development environ- Target platform Hardware PLC libraries to include ment Twin CAT v3.1 Build Arm® CXxxxx Tc2_System CX 4022.30 TE1000 Version: 1.6.3 39
## Page 40

Functions 4.6 F_CX8180_LED_WD Since the CX8180 supports various protocols, the two LEDs WD and ERR on the CX8180 are not used by the firmware. This allows users to create their own diagnosis messages. The LEDs can be used to indicate, for example, whether the CX8180 has received an IP address from the DHCP server or whether devices are exchanging data. The F_CX8180_LED_WD function controls the WD LED on the CX8180. Various color and flashing modes can be used here. The possible LED colors are red and green. Return value F_ CX8180_LED_WD : INT; Name Type Description F_CX8180 INT -1: flash code not implemented; 0: OK _LED_ERR Inputs VAR_INPUT e Mode : E_CX81x0_LED; END_VAR Name Type Description e Mode E_CX81x0_LED The operating mode of the LED, see also Data type E_CX81x0_LED [} 44]. Requirements Development environ- Target platform Hardware PLC libraries to include ment Twin CAT v3.1 Build Arm® CXxxxx Tc2_System CX 4022.30 4.7 F_CX8190_LED_ERR As the CX8190 supports various protocols, the two LEDs WD and ERR on the CX8190 are not used by the firmware. This allows users to create their own diagnosis messages. The LEDs can be used to indicate, for example, whether the CX8190 has received an IP address from the DHCP server or whether devices are exchanging data. The F_CX8190_LED_ERR function controls the ERR LED on the CX8190. Various color and flashing modes can be used here. The possible LED colors are red and green. Return value F_ F_CX8190_LED_ERR : INT; Name Type Description F_CX8190 INT -1: flash code not implemented; 0: OK _LED_ERR 40 Version: 1.6.3 TE1000
## Page 41

Functions Inputs VAR_INPUT e Mode : E_CX81x0_LED; END_VAR Name Type Description e Mode E_CX81x0_LED The operating mode of the LED, see also E_CX81x0_LED [} 44]. Requirements Development environ- Target platform Hardware PLC libraries to include ment Twin CAT v3.1 Build Arm® CXxxxx Tc2_System CX 4022.30 4.8 F_CX8190_LED_WD Since the CX8190 supports various protocols, the two LEDs WD and ERR on the CX8190 are not used by the firmware. This allows users to create their own diagnosis messages. The LEDs can be used to indicate, for example, whether the CX8190 has received an IP address from the DHCP server or whether devices are exchanging data. The F_CX8190_LED_WD function controls the WD LED on the CX8190. Various color and flashing modes can be used here. The possible LED colors are red and green. Return value F_ CX8190_LED_WD : INT; Name Type Description F_CX8190 INT -1: flash code not implemented; 0: OK _LED_ERR Inputs VAR_INPUT e Mode : E_CX81x0_LED; END_VAR Name Type Description e Mode E_CX81x0_LED The operating mode of the LED, see also E_CX81x0_LED [} 44]. Requirements Development environ- Target platform Hardware PLC libraries to include ment Twin CAT v3.1 Build Arm® CXxxxx Tc2_System CX 4022.30 TE1000 Version: 1.6.3 41
## Page 42

Data Types 5 Data Types 5.1 [obsolete] 5.1.1 ST_CX_Device Identification TYPE ST_Cx Device Identification : STRUCT str Target Type : STRING(20); str Hardware Model : STRING(10); str Hardware Serial No : STRING(12); str Hardware Version : STRING(4); str Hardware Date : STRING(10); str Hardware CPU : STRING(10); str Image Device : STRING(20); str Image Version : STRING(10); str Image Level : STRING(10); str Image Os Name : STRING(20); str Image Os Version : STRING(8); str Twin CATVersion : STRING(4); str Twin CATRevision : STRING(4); str Twin CATBuild : STRING(8); str Twin CATLevel : STRING(20); str Ams Net Id : STRING(23); END_STRUCT END_TYPE str Target Type: Type of the target system, e.g. 'CX1000-CE', ... str Hardware Model: Hardware model, e.g. '1001' str Hardware Serial No: Hardware serial number, e.g. '123' str Hardware Version: Hardware version, e.g. '1.7' str Hardware Date: Hardware production date, e.g. '18.8.06' str Hardware CPU: Hardware CPU architecture, e.g. 'INTELx86', 'ARM', 'UNKNOWN' or '' (empty string) str Image Device: Software platform, e.g. 'CX1000', ... str Image Version: Version of the software platform, e.g. '2.15' str Image Version: Version of the software platform, e.g. 'HMI' str Image Os Version: Name of the operating system, e.g. 'Windows CE' str Image Os Version: Version of the operating system, e.g. '5.0' str Twin CATVersion: Twin CAT version, e.g. for Twin CAT 2.10.1307: '2' str Twin CATRevision: Twin CAT Reversion, e.g. for Twin CAT 2.10.1307: '10' str Twin CATBuild: Twin CAT Build, e.g. for Twin CAT 2.10.1307: '1307' str Twin CATLevel: Registered Twin CAT level, e.g. 'PLC', 'NC-PTP', 'NC-I', .... str Ams Net Id: Twin CAT AMS-Net ID, e.g. '5.0.252.31.1.1' Requirements Development environment Target platform PLC libraries to include Twin CAT v3.1.0 CX (x86) Tc2_System CX 5.1.2 ST_Cx Device Identification Ex TYPE ST_Cx Device Identification Ex : STRUCT str Target Type : STRING(30); 42 Version: 1.6.3 TE1000
## Page 43

Data Types str Hardware Model : STRING(16); str Hardware Serial No : STRING(16); str Hardware Version : STRING(8); str Hardware Date : STRING(12); str Hardware CPU : STRING(20); str Image Device : STRING(48); str Image Version : STRING(32); str Image Level : STRING(32); str Image Os Name : STRING(48); str Image Os Version : STRING(8); str Twin CATVersion : STRING(4); str Twin CATRevision : STRING(4); str Twin CATBuild : STRING(8); str Twin CATLevel : STRING(20); str Ams Net Id : T_AMSNet Id; END_STRUCT END_TYPE str Targe Type: Type of the target system, e.g. 'CX1000-CE', ... str Hardware Model: Hardware model, e.g. '1001' str Hardware Serial No: Hardware serial number, e.g. '123' str Hardware Version: Hardware version, e.g. '1.7' str Hardware Date: Hardware production date, e.g. '18.8.06' str Hardware CPU: Hardware CPU architecture, e.g. 'INTELx86', 'ARM', 'UNKNOWN' or '' (empty string) str Image Device: Software platform, e.g. 'CX1000', ... str Image Version: Version of the software platform, e.g. '2.15' str Image Version: Version of the software platform, e.g. 'HMI' str Image Os Version: Name of the operating system, e.g. 'Windows CE' str Image Os Version: Version of the operating system, e.g. '5.0' str Twin CATVersion: Twin CAT version, e.g. for Twin CAT 2.10.1307: '2' str Twin CATRevision: Twin CAT Reversion, e.g. for Twin CAT 2.10.1307: '10' str Twin CATBuild: Twin CAT Build, e.g. for Twin CAT 2.10.1307: '1307' str Twin CATLevel: Registered Twin CAT level, e.g. 'PLC', 'NC-PTP', 'NC-I', .... str Ams Net Id: Twin CAT AMS-Net ID, e.g. '5.0.252.31.1.1' Requirements Development environment Target platform PLC libraries to include Twin CAT v3.1.0 CX (x86) Tc2_System CX 5.2 ST_CX_Profiler Struct TYPE ST_CX_Profiler Struct: STRUCT dw Last Exec Time : DWORD; dw Min Exec Time : DWORD; dw Max Exec Time : DWORD; dw Average Exec Time : DWORD; dw Measure Cycle : DWORD; END_STRUCT END_TYPE TE1000 Version: 1.6.3 43
## Page 44

Data Types Name Description dw Last Exec Time The most recently measured value for the execution time in [µs] dw Min Exec Time The minimum execution time in [µs] dw Max Exec Time The maximum execution time in [µs] dw Average Exec Time The mean execution time for the last 100 measurements in [µs] dw Measure Cycle The number of measurements that have already been carried out Requirements Development environment Target platform PLC libraries to include Twin CAT v3.1.0 CX (x86) Tc2_System CX 5.3 Data type E_CX81x0_LED TYPE E_CX81x0_LED : ( e CX81x0_LED_GREEN_OFF, e CX81x0_LED_GREEN_ON, e CX81x0_LED_GREEN_FLASHING_Quick, e CX81x0_LED_GREEN_FLASHING_200ms, e CX81x0_LED_GREEN_FLASHING_500ms, e CX81x0_LED_GREEN_FLASHING_Pulse, e CX81x0_LED_RED_OFF:=20, e CX81x0_LED_RED_ON, e CX81x0_LED_RED_FLASHING_Quick, e CX81x0_LED_RED_FLASHING_200ms, e CX81x0_LED_RED_FLASHING_500ms, e CX81x0_LED_RED_FLASHING_Pulse, e CX81x0_LED_GREEN_RED_OFF:=100, e CX81x0_LED_GREEN_RED_FLASHING_200ms, e CX81x0_LED_GREEN_RED_FLASHING_500ms ); END_TYPE 5.4 E_CX1000_Display Modes E_CX1000_Display Modes : ( e_CX1100_Display No Action := 0, e_CX1100_Display On := 1, e_CX1100_Display Off, e_CX1100_Cursor On, e_CX1100_Cursor Off, e_CX1100_Cursor Blink On, e_CX1100_Cursor Blink Off, e_CX1100_Back Light On, e_CX1100_Back Light Off, e_CX1100_Clear Display, e_CX1100_Write Line1, e_CX1100_Write Line2 ); Name Description e_CX1100_Display No Action No action. e_CX1100_Display On Switch on the display. e_CX1100_Display Off Switch off the display. e_CX1100_Cursor On Switch on the cursor. e_CX1100_Cursor Off Switch off the cursor. e_CX1100_Cursor Blink On Switch on the cursor blinking. e_CX1100_Cursor Blink Off Switch off the cursor blinking. e_CX1100_Back Light On Switch on the backlight. e_CX1100_Back Light Off Switch off the backlight. e_CX1100_Clear Display Clear display. e_CX1100_Write Line1 Write the first line. e_CX1100_Write Line2 Write the second line. 44 Version: 1.6.3 TE1000
## Page 45

Data Types 5.5 E_CX2100_Display Modes Wr E_CX2100_Display Modes Wr : ( e CX2100_Display No Action Wr := 0, e CX2100_Cursor On, e CX2100_Cursor Off, e CX2100_Cursor Blink On, e CX2100_Cursor Blink Off, e CX2100_Back Light On, e CX2100_Back Light Off, e CX2100_Clear Display, e CX2100_Write Line1, e CX2100_Write Line2, e CX2100_Write Lines, e CX2100_Cursor Pos X, e CX2100_Cursor Pos Y, e CX2100_Cursor Pos XY ; Name Description e CX2100_Display No Action Wr No action. e CX2100_Cursor On Switch on the cursor. e CX2100_Cursor Off Switch off the cursor. e CX2100_Cursor Blink On Switch on the cursor blinking. e CX2100_Cursor Blink Off Switch off the cursor blinking. e CX2100_Back Light On Switch on the backlight. e CX2100_Back Light Off Switch off the backlight. e CX2100_Clear Display Clear display. e CX2100_Write Line1 Write the first line. e CX2100_Write Line2 Write the second line. e CX2100_Write Lines Write lines. e CX2100_Cursor Pos X Cursor position on the X axis. e CX2100_Cursor Pos Y Cursor position on the Y axis. e CX2100_Cursor Pos XY Cursor position on the XY axis. 5.6 E_CX2100_Display Modes Rd E_CX2100_Display Modes Rd : ( e CX2100_Display No Action Rd := 0, e CX2100_Read Cursor Info, e CX2100_Read Back Light, e CX2100_Read Line1, e CX2100_Read Line2, e CX2100_Read Lines ); Name Description e CX2100_Display No Action Rd No action e CX2100_Read Cursor Info Read values via the cursor. e CX2100_Read Back Light Read backlight values. e CX2100_Read Line1 Read values from the first line. e CX2100_Read Line2 Read values from the second line. e CX2100_Read Lines Read values from lines. 5.7 Enum E_CX1100_Navi Switch TYPE E_CX1100_Navi Switch : ( e_CX1100_Navi Switch_IDLE := 0, e_CX1100_Navi Switch_MIDDLE := 16, (* clockwise in 45 degree steps *) e_CX1100_Navi Switch_TOP := 1, e_CX1100_Navi Switch_TOPRIGHT := 9, TE1000 Version: 1.6.3 45
## Page 46

Data Types e_CX1100_Navi Switch_RIGHT := 8, e_CX1100_Navi Switch_BOTTOMRIGHT := 10, e_CX1100_Navi Switch_BOTTOM := 2, e_CX1100_Navi Switch_BOTTOMLEFT := 6, e_CX1100_Navi Switch_LEFT := 4, e_CX1100_Navi Switch_TOPLEFT := 5, (* clockwise in 45 degree steps with middle switch pressed *) e_CX1100_Navi Switch_MIDDLE_TOP := 17, e_CX1100_Navi Switch_MIDDLE_TOPRIGHT := 25, e_CX1100_Navi Switch_MIDDLE_RIGHT := 24, e_CX1100_Navi Switch_MIDDLE_BOTTOMRIGHT := 26, e_CX1100_Navi Switch_MIDDLE_BOTTOM := 18, e_CX1100_Navi Switch_MIDDLE_BOTTOMLEFT := 22, e_CX1100_Navi Switch_MIDDLE_LEFT := 20, e_CX1100_Navi Switch_MIDDLE_TOPLEFT := 21 END_VAR Values other than those defined in enum (e.g. 11) are displayed as "*** INVALID: value ***" in online mode (e.g. "*** INVALID: 11 ***"). The function F_CXNavi Switch then returns the invalid value (e.g. 11). 5.8 Enum E_CX2100_Navi Switch TYPE E_CX2100_Navi Switch : ( e_CX2100_Navi Switch_IDLE := 0, e_CX2100_Navi Switch_MIDDLE := 15, e_CX2100_Navi Switch_ENTER := 16, e_CX2100_Navi Switch_ENTER_MIDDLE := 31, (* clockwise in 45 degree steps, 1-2 switches on *) e_CX2100_Navi Switch_TOP := 1, e_CX2100_Navi Switch_TOPRIGHT := 9, e_CX2100_Navi Switch_RIGHT := 8, e_CX2100_Navi Switch_BOTTOMRIGHT := 10, e_CX2100_Navi Switch_BOTTOM := 2, e_CX2100_Navi Switch_BOTTOMLEFT := 6, e_CX2100_Navi Switch_LEFT := 4, e_CX2100_Navi Switch_TOPLEFT := 5, (* clockwise in 90 degree, 3 switches on*) e_CX2100_Navi Switch_TOPLEFTRIGHT := 13, e_CX2100_Navi Switch_RIGHTTOPBOTTOM := 11, e_CX2100_Navi Switch_BOTTOMLEFTRIGHT := 14, e_CX2100_Navi Switch_LEFTTOPBOTTOM := 7, (* clockwise in 45 degree steps with enter switch pressed, 1-2 switches on *) e_CX2100_Navi Switch_ENTER_TOP := 17, e_CX2100_Navi Switch_ENTER_TOPRIGHT := 25, e_CX2100_Navi Switch_ENTER_RIGHT := 24, e_CX2100_Navi Switch_ENTER_BOTTOMRIGHT := 26, e_CX2100_Navi Switch_ENTER_BOTTOM := 18, e_CX2100_Navi Switch_ENTER_BOTTOMLEFT := 22, e_CX2100_Navi Switch_ENTER_LEFT := 20, e_CX2100_Navi Switch_ENTER_TOPLEFT := 21 (* clockwise in 90 degree steps with enter switch pressed, 3 switches on *) e_CX2100_Navi Switch_ENTER_TOPLEFTRIGHT := 29, e_CX2100_Navi Switch_ENTER_RIGHTTOPBOTTOM := 27, e_CX2100_Navi Switch_ENTER_BOTTOMLEFTRIGHT := 30, e_CX2100_Navi Switch_ENTER_LEFTTOPBOTTOM := 23, ) 46 Version: 1.6.3 TE1000
## Page 47

Global constants 6 Global constants 6.1 Library version All libraries have a specific version. This version is inter alia shown in the PLC library repository too. A global constant contains the library version information: Global_Version VAR_GLOBAL CONSTANT st Lib Version_Tc2_System CX : ST_Lib Version; END_VAR st Lib Version_Tc2_System CX: version information of the Tc2_System CX library (type: ST_Lib Version). To compare the existing version to a required version the function F_Cmp Lib Version (defined in Tc2_System library) is offered. All other possibilities known from Twin CAT 2 to query a library version are obsolete! TE1000 Version: 1.6.3 47
## Page 48

Trademark statements Beckhoff®, ATRO®, Ether CAT®, Ether CAT G®, Ether CAT G10®, Ether CAT P®, MX-System®, Safety over Ether CAT®, TC/BSD®, Twin CAT®, Twin CAT/BSD®, Twin SAFE®, XFC®, XPlanar® and XTS® are registered and licensed trademarks of Beckhoff Automation Gmb H. Third-party trademark statements Arm, Arm9 and Cortex are trademarks or registered trademarks of Arm Limited (or its subsidiaries or affiliates) in the US and/or elsewhere. Microsoft, Microsoft Azure, Microsoft Edge, Power Shell, Visual Studio, Windows and Xbox are trademarks of the Microsoft group of companies.
## Page 49

More Information: www.beckhoff.com/te1000 Beckhoff Automation Gmb H & Co. KG Hülshorstweg 20 33415 Verl Germany Phone: +49 5246 9630 info@beckhoff.com www.beckhoff.com
